+++
title = "001 Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)	2015-03-15, 08:03:00 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/-HODOXEZSCg)]]



Namaste



1. Thanks for sharing the private ‘technical question on grammar’
asked by me and your very learned and detailed response in Sanskrit, which I highly appreciate. The question itself was a midstream issues of the thread of discussion on the points raised by Dr. Narayan Joshi and response by you and other scholars –Paturi, Bhat and the team.



Thanks for sharing the details for the benefit of the larger team. The readers at large will greatly benefit if the response below is translated in to English, may be connecting ‘Sphota and Jati concepts together’… If this issue is seen as ‘too technical’, or ‘ dry topic with nothing to get excited’, please excuse.



2. **Here is the related further seeking in relation to the quote** :
\< तां प्रातिपदिकार्थं च धात्वर्थं च प्रचक्षते । सा नित्या सा महान् आत्मा तामाहुः त्वतलादयः॥ 34 …. ताम् = जातिम् \>. (I have placed at the end what is already clarified by Professor Korada in the previous post).



**Question**: Can you please elaborate with an illustration, say in
words like \< ‘Pashu-taa = Animal- ness ; Sat- taa = Genre of Existence; chur / Chora /Choratvam -Chorataa \> and specify how the \< jaati of \< Pratyaya> which is almost generic for application and \< jaati> of the \< Praatipadika –Dhatu> gets interactive and mutually
impacted ? Is it just a perception of ‘meaning’ because we ‘feel familiar with Sanskrit’ and assume that we know what it means Or is it something that needs to be deduced and validated according to a rule-base processing, as an alukika-prakriyaa / Chitta vrutti / artha-nirnaya /Sphota?? ?



The debate on this issue of ‘ Jaati of Verb’ is critical importance in ‘Sanskrit Language modeling for Computers / Sanskrit Computational linguistics ( who limit the Sanskrit language perception for processing to a set of glyphs and characters listed under code page of the standard) ’. And answers can come only by a clear understanding of the source works of Grammar, where the issue has been analyzed. This is also necessary to point out why ‘Sanskrit Grammar and Linguistics’
along with its Philosophy (Darshana -Shaastra) cannot be handled in isolation and subjected to a ‘ postmortem-analysis mode on a Dead-language metaphor (Courtesy :Dr .Sheldon Pollock’s essay) Or , as in many ‘non-Sanskrit, social ‘prakrit languages’.



The analysis provided by Bhartruhari’s and ably explained by Professor Korada , quoting original Sanskrit text does not render to easy pale translation in english, using ‘Jaati = Caste’ dictionary sense ! The analysis of philosophical nature given here certainly and unequivocally applies to all languages; be it a Classical languages ( like Greek or Latin) or any of the top ten world languages spoken by 310 million people in the world ( like English, Mandarin..) or the 133 languages considered endangered and on the verge of being extant, out of which at least 20% are in India, ( - <http://www.endangeredlanguages.com/lang/4373> ) . 



This clarity on Sanskrit and the uniqueness it has carried with it is of critical importance to answer the question : Why Sanskrit is a Language of a different class and league amongst world languages, when the linguistic survey data shows that native speakers of Sanskrit as mother tongue or less than 10,000 ? in its home land ‘ India’!



**Coming back to the technical point , the post has clarified the following, based on which the next-question is raised. . The clarified
points being :**

****

2.1) The operative part about understanding ‘Jati’ in relation to ALL SHADAS seems to be of two types.

(2-1-1) Under the umbrella of Jati, all Shadas are positioned for their meaning ( = तस्यां सर्वे शब्दा व्यवस्थिताः\> )

(2-1-2) Understanding ‘Jati’ is understanding ‘ Changing satta’ \< = …. सत्तैव भिद्यमाना …. । जातिरित्युच्यते …. \> with different \<
संबन्धिभेदात् = द्रव्यभेदात् > attributes. 

(2-1-3) ‘All Words’ = All denotations covering Jati, Guna, Kriya \<
सर्वेशब्दाः = जातिगुणक्रियासंज्ञाशब्दाः\> .

(2-1-4) There is a deeper ‘ core connection of ALL SHABDAS with
Eternal Spiritual and Universal Conscience \< सा नित्या सा महान् आत्मा\>

(2-1-5) The affixes prescribed by Paninian grammar, like tva, tal by different rules for processing the base (praatipadika) points to \< तामाहुः त्वतलादयः ; ताम् = जातिम् >

(2-1-6) The affixes (Pratyayas) modify the \<‘ Jaati’> and causes changing perception of \< Sattaa>. Whether this extends to the ‘ upasargas and Svara modifying rules also would be an interesting technical point to explore. These are critical issues involved in ‘ making meaning out of a Vedic passage’, as per traditional norms. Whether indology schools agree with this or other wise is a different point for debate. 



Regards

BVK Sastry



--  
निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
---  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

No virus found in this message.  
Checked by AVG - [www.avg.com](http://www.avg.com)  
Version: 2015.0.5751 / Virus Database: 4306/9303 - Release Date: 03/14/15

