+++
title = "009 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-11-22, 10:52:37 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/cPsk39I19G0)]]



Here is an excerpt from a blog entry:

  

Slokas 15 to 19 in the 29th sarga of Sundara Kandam, Hanuman thinks about the language in which he should speak to Sita. These slokas are:  
1. “Antharathvaha maasaadhya raakshashenami hasthitha”  
(I have reached this place when the demonesses are taking rest)  
2. “Sanairachvaasyishyami santhaapa bahu dhamimam”  
(I will try to pacify her, as she is highly agitated)  
3. “Ahamthvathithanuchaiva vaanarascha visheshatha”  
(I am a monkey, which is a small creature, not respected by others)  
4. “Vaachannodhaa harishyaami maanusheemiva samskruthaam”  
(If I speak the language spoken by human beings which is full of grammar)  
5. Yathivaacham praathasyami dwijathiriva samskruthaam  
(If I spoke Sanskrit, which is spoken by the twice born (dwija – Brahmin)  
6. Ravanam manyamanaa maam sita bhithaa bhavishyathi  
(Sita will think that Ravana has come disguised as a monkey)  
7. Vaanarasya visheshena kathamsyaadhabibhashanam  
(Thinking that a monkey could not utter a refined language)  
8. Avachyamabhivakthuvayam maanusham vaakyamardhavath  
(It is necessary that I should speak in easy to understand language spoken by human beings, which is “Maanusha baashai”)  
9. Mayachanthvayithum sakyaa  
(By speaking that language I can console her)  
10. Naanyatheya maninthitha  
(If I do not speak in easy-to-understand common man’s language and if I speak in grammatical language spoken by human beings or in Sanskrit, I cannot console her)  
  
Here the languages that Hanuman can speak are explained: they are Maanushivak, Samskruthavak and Maanusham Vaakyam.  
Vaak and Vaakyam here mean language. Hence Maanushivaak and Maanusham Vaakyam should be taken to mean language spoken by human beings and Samskruthavak is Sanskrit.  
In the fourth sentence above (Vaachannodhaa harishyaami maanusheemiva samskruthaam) “Maanusha baashai” is referred and it means a well made out language spoken by human beings.  
In the fifth sentence (Yathivaacham praathasyami dwijathiriva samskruthaam) Sanskrit, which is the language spoken by celestial beings, which is grammatically correct and pleasing to the ears, is referred.  
In the eighth sentence two words “maanusham” and “vaakyam” are mentioned, which come under the special category of “Aradhavadh”, which means the meaningful language.  
As there is no other language, which has no meaning, why “maanusha baasha” alone is referred to as meaningful is, because each word in it is full of meaning and the words are well constructed.  
The “maanusha baashai” referred to in the fourth sentence has not been given the qualification of “Aradhavadh”. Because it will be poetic and can be understood only by litterateurs. The qualification of “Samskrutham” given to it is not given to the “maanusha baashai” referred to in the eighth sentence.  
Hence the “maanusha baashai” referred to in the fourth sentence is grammatical and it is not meaningful. But the language referred to in the eighth sentence is meaningful, but not grammatical.  
Hence the “maanusha baashai” referred to in the fourth sentence is discarded by Hanuman, who decided to speak in the “maanusha baashai” referred to in the eighth sentence.  
Hence it could be made out that there were two “maanusha baashais”. Out of them the first, which was grammatical and full of metaphors, similes and other qualities, could be understood only by learned men and its style will be poetic.  
The latter one could be understood by all – the learned as well as illiterate – and it will consist of beautiful sentences. Its grammar may not be correct.  
Hence “maanusha baashai” was in two forms – the first one consisting of grammatically correct words and sentences which will be poetic in nature and cannot be easily understood and the second one whose grammar may be imperfect, but its meaning can be easily understood as spoken language is understood.  
In the words “maanusha baashai”, it is given to understand that it belonged to human beings. The language belonging to common man can also be called as “swabashai”. Hence it means that Sanskrit is not their “swabashai”. As “maanusha baashai” is known by two kinds, Sanskrit is not divided into any groups. Hence it could be said that Sanskrit was not a spoken language but literary language and the language of scriptures. It was understood only by learned men.  
Now it must be found out which “maanusha baashai” was chosen by Hanuman to converse with Sita.  
The commentator says that it must be the language, which was spoken in the Kosala country. This is true. But the commentator does not give the name of that language and it needs to be researched here.

<http://tashindu.blogspot.com/>  
  
  

2010/11/22 Arun \<[arunupa...@yahoo.in]()\>  





