+++
title = "011 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2013-03-31, 22:08:39 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/hIZuX7KZz48)]]



Dear Respected Dr Rani and Scholars,  
  
The only point I was trying to make was to become and/or remain aware of "Side Effects" of kapitya.  
  
Properties of Chemicals (गुणधर्म) does not change. Thus the property of Oxalic Acid is not going to change whether the fruit is ripe or not.
Actual amount may vary but not that significantly. Most Ayurvedic practitioner's hang their hat on the conventional "Peg" of tradition rather than accepting the the facts of chemical entities present in the ingredients.  
  
It is our silly perception that we think that all that is natural is safe. As an extreme example, should we recommend the in-discriminate use of Arsenic trioxide! absolutely not.  
  
IMO - It is up to the individual whether some one ignores them due to ignorance or purposely by design. Not knowing or not sharing the information should not be a matter of pride but needs to remain classified under the column of ignorance. This is like, intentionally asking for for trouble ( ā baila muzhe māra) or trying to speed through the traffic light when it is orange, with only assurance that "We have been doing so for so many generations".

  

Big Pharma companies have settled big milti-million dollar law suits in US for not having shared the information pertaining to the side-effects of their drugs. (Celebrex Vioxx) or even a McDoinaalds Hot Coffee (Hot Coffee) for that matter.  

  

Our tradition strongly recommends to practice Yoga हेयं दुःखमनागतम् ..२.१६.  
Vyasa in the m\~nagalam recommends the recitation of 12 names of GaNasha that conclude with a statement "विघ्नस्तस्य न जायते"  
  
I have lot of respect for our traditions but we need to continue to evaluate them in the background of scientific facts. Our ancestors established GaNesha as a dynamic deity - त्वं ज्ञानमयो विज्ञानमयोऽसि  
  
I firmly believe that our ancestors us to practice the rituals for out benefit and to avoid pitfalls. It is up to us to understand and practice them with sharpened thought process.  
  
Some the concepts discussed above are from my Book - "GaNesha 360 - The Science of Smart Living".  
  
I thank all the scholars on this list for my continued education in our tradition and SanskritI  
  
With best rgds,  
  
Dr Yadu  
  
  

  

>  style="font-family:times new roman,new york,times,serif;font-size:12pt"> >
>  style="font-family:times new roman,new york,times,serif;font-size:12pt"> >
> 
> > ------------------------------------------------------------------------ >
> **From:** sadasivamurty rani \<[ranisada...@yahoo.com]()\>  
> **To:** "[kora...@gmail.com]()" \<[kora...@gmail.com]()\>; > "[v.subra...@gmail.com]()" \<[v.subra...@gmail.com]()\>; > [ymoh...@yahoo.com]()  
> **Cc:** "[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()" > \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
> **Sent:** Saturday, March 30, 2013 10:12 PM >
> 
> > 
> > 





