+++
title = "001 VKG"

+++
[[VKG	2010-08-04, 07:45:45 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/VFdpGuB-3bs)]]



Kudos to Aatmashrama Foundation. While commending their initiative, we  
request that the proceedings also be compiled and submitted to the  
esteemed members of this forum.  
  
Since, many of the subjects are not easily understandable, at first  
instance; these presentations will require re-visiting again and  
again, to properly interpret/ understand the speaker's view point.  
  
Hence, that would be a great service to one and all. Thus the purpose  
of dissemination of information about various stand points/ vistas of  
Philosophy would also be properly fulfilled.  
  
Regards  
Vkg  

  
  
On Aug 3, 12:17pm, Rachuri Achar \<[rrach...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  
\> Namah Sabhayai,  
\>  Atmashrama Foundation, a spiritual research organization, is conducting a  

\> one day \*Workshop on Meditation and Spiritual Research Methodology\* on  

\> Sunday, August 15th at Brigade MLR Convention Center, J.P.Nagar, Bangalore.  
\> Renowned scholars in across the nation specializing in various fields from  
\> Traditional Philosophies to Modern Sciences would be participating in the  
\> event.  
\>  
\> I would like to take this opportunity to brief you all about the panelists  
\> for the event and their topics.  
\>  

\> \*Prof. V.N. Jha\*, Pune - Theory of Knowledge according to Nyaya School  
\> \*Prof Rama Subramanian\*, Mumbai - Epistemology in Advaita  
\> \*Prof Srinivasa Varakhedi\*, Hyderabad - The Theory of Knowledge according to  
\> Dvaita School  
\> \*Prof Srikanthan\*, Bangalore - The Quest for Ultimate Reality - A Scientific  
\> Viewpoint  
\> \*Prof Ravi\*, Bangalore - Scientific Research Methodology in Medicine  

\>  
\> Some of the key aspects the Workshop aims to address are  
\>  
\> 1. Introduction to Theory of Knowledge of respective schools  
\> 2. Definition of Knowledge.  
\> 3. Definition of sources (instruments) of Knowledge (Pramana)  
\> 4. What are the canons of textual interpretation?  
\> 5. What are the valid sources of knowledge? Why?  
\> 6. What cannot be a valid source of knowledge? Why?  
\> 7. The process of Acquiring, Processing & Validating Knowledge  
\> 8. Are all sources of knowledge given equal status or is there any  
\> gradation?  
\> 9. How conflicts are resolved between different Sources of Knowledge.  
\>  
\> The event flyer including the detailed profiles of the speakers is attached.  
\> Please let me know if anyone in this group would be interested to attend the  
\> workshop. As the registrations are limited to only 100 selected  
\> intellectuals, kindly confirm your participation at the earliest by filling  
\> out the registration form attached.  
\>  
\> Kindly refer few of your friends/colleagues who would be interested to  
\> attend this workshop.The last date for registrations is Aug 7th.  
\>  
\> With best regards,  
\> राचूरि आचार्य  
\>  

\> Dasoham_04.jpg  
\> 467KViewDownload  
\>  
\> Dasoham_01.jpg  
\> 300KViewDownload  
\>  
\> Dasoham_02.jpg  
\> 339KViewDownload  
\>  
\> Dasoham_03.jpg  
\> 394KViewDownload  
\>  
\> Registration Form for Dasoham.doc  
\> 41KViewDownload

