+++
title = "000 Dr.BVK Sastry"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry	2011-05-15, 01:47:21 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/225xJ74lgrE)]]



  
Namaste  
  
(I am changing the subject line to keep the linked issues of previous  
thread; yet have a separate thread)  
  
This is regarding the use of quoted Mahabhashya passage under  
reference for ‘ traditional identification’ of Patanjali of Yoga and  
Patanjali of Vyakarana. (Please excuse for the long and involved post.  
The issue addressed here is not as simple as it seems, to be resolved  
by an opinion or a text validation.)  
  
I continue researching on this topic of ‘Vag-yoga’ for several years,  
way back since 70’s as a part of vyakarana studies. Eminent scholars  
like Vidwan Ranganatha Sharma have been helpful in shaping my thoughts  
on this topic. The understanding of ‘Vag-yoga’ tradition needs to be  
handled separately from ‘Patanjali Identification’ issue.  
  
Vag-yoga tradition is a living tradition. It is a part of Sri-vidya  
practical-part of Vedanta-Yoga system. Vag-Yoga is also known as  
‘mantra-yoga’ in close circles. ALL systems of philosophies, mystics,  
music as yoga, traditional religious rituals have ingrained in them  
the use of ‘Vag-yoga’, though not articulated and called so.  
  
Just for records, I have taught a full course on theory and practice  
of ‘Vag-yoga’ in US under the name of ‘Spiritual Linguistics’ as  
semester credits/ intensives ; as a current practicing yoga technique  
for three batches of students . My first paper on this topic was  
presented for WAVES-2002.  
  
My summary findings are noted below:  
  
1) The text quoted in mahabhashya referring to the word ‘Vag-yoga’ is  
an ancient vedic reference according to the mahabhashya text.  
  
The inference from this would be that there must have been a ‘Yoga-  
tradition’ prevalent and prior to Patanjali , which carries this name.  
From this perspective, I prefer to go by RNI noting earlier, reading  
\< Instead of attributing the authorship of a ‘book/ grantha’ to a  
particular person when he is unidentifiable, except emotionally, it is  
preferable to refer to the available work as a school / tradition /  
parampara/ sampradaaya. This would help, at the least, discussions  
connected with relative chronology. \>  
  
2) If historically and chronologically we accept Bhagavadgita is an  
older text, way back before Patanajali of Vyakarana and of Yoga  
sutra (- by how much ? is a different issue) , then the yoga  
tradition of Vak, referred to in Bhagavad-Gita 17-15 as below seems to  
be an important anchor to make further investigation .Reference in  
Gita : \< anudvegakaraM vaakyam, satyaM priyahitaM cha yat .  
svaadhyaayaabhyasananaM chaiva vaaNmayaM tapa uchyate \>  
  
From this point, one can find the prior connection of Yoga and Speech  
(Vaak) in upanishat : cf: Taittiriya Upanishad – Instruction of Varuna  
to Bhrugu to contemplate on Brahman: ‘Where points –perspectives of  
contemplation are given as ‘ eyes, ears, manas, .. vaacham iti’. The  
rest of the Tatiitriya Upanishad is silent on how these points of  
investigation-guidance was used by Bhrigu. And commentaries are also  
generally silent on it. In my understanding, this part of guidance was  
‘ anushaasana’ and not for documentation. There are umpteen  
references to Yoga of Vaak in Vedic and Brahmana /aaranyaka texts.  
Tantra uses this as ‘antar-yajna’.  
  
3) The word ‘Vag-yoga’ in the reference from Mahabhashya is not  
elaborated in other commentaries of Kaiyyata and Nagesha in the domain  
of 'Vyakarana'- which is outbound speech for expressive communication  
in practical world. When Bhartruhari speaks of ‘Shabda-brahma’ /  
Sphota, it is a far deeper integration of multiple disciplines :  
Vedanta-Yoga-Vyakarana as Vedanga- Tantra. It is a direction for 'In-  
bound spech Process investigation: the ephemeral sounds dissolving in  
to the eternal Supreme Divine'.  
  
4) The tradition of ‘Vak’ as a ‘Yoga sadhana is specified in Shikhsa  
Sutra \< well known as atma buddhya samayuktah, mano yungthe..>. The  
Tantra parlor uses the layered concept with the technical vocabulary  
of Para-pashyanti-madhyama-vaikhari, again seen in Mahabhashya.  
Therefore, I am of the opinion that ‘Vag-yoga-vid’ is a singular –  
unique expression of a higher order practice of Yoga, in the line of  
‘Vangmayam tapah’.  
  
5) Much of the studies of Abhinavagupta in relation to Pratybhijna  
darshana are ‘viewed with a ‘lens colored by a ‘saivite’ perspective,  
due to the title ‘Maha Maheswara Acharya’ . When one studies deeper  
parts of the text and practice the instruction in the source,  
‘Bhairava –Bhariavee’ upasana is not much of a savitie pantheon  
deity / fierce, disgusting drunken merry making lustful form in  
tantra. It is the subtlest form of investigation following the ‘speech  
sounds to the source’ to ‘Realize the Supreme Divine (mahato Deva /  
maha deva /mahaa devi ; shiva-shakti in varna-svara)’. One needs to  
understand the ‘spanda’ part in spanda –kaarikas to get a glimpse on  
this line of analysis and get support from practicing people –  
insiders of tradition. Language Sounds ( Varna-maalaa) are 'Shiva-  
Sutra' - threads leading the connection to Shiva (supreme) ; holding  
the manifestation of Shiva (like the thread of a garland binding the  
flowers, yet invisible). It is a dee\[er tradition of 'Naama-roopa-  
Vyakarana'.  
  
6) Samskrutham (- aka Sanskrit) is a structure which is primarily  
‘voice’ oriented and not ‘visual script oriented’. The supposed  
corruption of text may not be really so, unless one has validation  
from the ‘voice tradition /Practicing tradition’. If one looks at the  
way yajurveda is voiced and scripted, the north Indian recension is  
challenging. The script is ‘Zha’ ; the voiced phoneme is ‘Kha’. There  
are reasons for such scripting and rule of pronunciation. Therefore  
excessive reliance on ‘script /manuscript / scribe ‘ in reconstruction  
of text and subsequent argumentation is to be done with care.  
  
7) Reg. Yoga sutra text of Patanjali: It is easy to throw a  
suggestion that there might be text-variations in very early period  
for a standard text, currently received and being used. Example: Yoga  
sutra , Ashtadhyayi, Mahabhashya. The logic used is very commendable  
and appealing – lack of surviving scripted manuscripts, scribe errors,  
script discrepancies, human memory fallacies, variant teaching  
traditions et al. Is that enough basis for making challenging claims  
on the authenticity of a reading in a given text /suggest alternative  
readings and constructions ? I have reservations on this.  
  
Please permit to me to raise a flag here.  
  
It is a commonly held understanding that Patanjali of Yoga sutra is  
the anchor for ‘Yoga-Darshana’ - one of the six systems of  
Philosophy. This is the view even in the current traditional schools  
teaching Vedanta.  
  
7a) If yoga tradition foot prints are there in Upanishads / Gita  
before Patanjali of Yoga sutra ; and they are the anchors of  
‘Vedanta’ school, how come ‘Yoga sutra’ dared to tread a different  
line compared to ‘Brahma-sutra’ ? Alternatively why 'Shiva sutra' is  
not to be handled like 'Brahma-sutra?  
  
7b) If Yoga system is alien in vision to Vedanta, why then the  
Vedanta masters use the title ‘Ashtanga yoga nishNaata’ and claim  
‘yoga siddhi’ instead of calling it as ‘Veda-vedanta siddhi’? Why yoga  
is needed by Vedanta schools, only as a tool sans the darshana from  
yoga ?  
  
7c) Why existing Yoga guidance schools are not able to lead the  
practitioner from Samadhi (- the last point of ashtanga yoga) to the  
further advanced phase of ‘Kaivalya’ specified in fourth chapter? How  
is Kaivalya different from Samadhi ? What is the journeying guidance  
from samdhi to Kaivalya ? How different is Kaivalya from  
‘Jeevanmukti / Videha mukti ’ in Vedanta?  
  
While many go great guns on ‘Ashtanga yoga ( YS 2-29), where is the  
deliberations on yoga path derivatives from YS 2-1: tapas as Yoga,  
Swadhyaya as Yoga, Ishwara-prandihana as yoga and the related  
‘Ashtangas’ within this ? YS 2-1 stands on the top of YS-2-29 in  
category conceptualization and derivation. The concept of tapas and  
swadhyaya in (2-1) is a main category. The same terms tapas (2-43 )  
and Swadhyaya (2-44 ) are sub category derivative of (2-32) under  
(2-29). The main category and sub category need to be treated per  
merits of the text and not by ‘phonemic similarity’.  
  
8) Additional Notes about difficulties in comprehending foot  
prints of Vag-yoga tradition:  
  
In the current period, Yoga in US is still at the Body-breath level as  
for practice ; and in the fold of ‘yoga as one school Indian  
philosophy’ in the academics.  
  
The first part is due to the error of mistaking ‘Hatha-yoga –physical  
part’ as ‘Patanjali yoga’, as a totally language independent workout.  
The pursuing markets being beneficiaries by body-health. This is  
making Yoga a ‘Yoga-studio – service / exotic nature / therapeutic  
value commodity’. This segment is NOT yet ready for comprehending the  
nuances of ‘Vag-Yoga’.  
  
The second one is academic , making the serious hermeneutic error in  
deployment of language tool in understanding Yoga. Generally the  
study of the text of Yoga Sutra is followed per rules of Panini,  
currently known as ‘Sanskrit language’. This current academic  
understanding –usage of ‘Sanskrit as a language like any other  
language of the early period’ carries with it an integral baggage of a  
‘historicity, human , socio-temporal, cultural classical language  
frame limitation’. If one carefully reads and looks at the ‘Language  
modeling concept’ used in all the source texts, and in this case, for  
‘Vag-yoga’ Yoga tradition uses a ‘Vedanga model of Language’. This is  
totally different from the social language construct, used as  
‘Sanskrit for Samskrutham’. The understanding of ‘Vag-yoga’- the use  
of language elements and processes as a tool to inquire in to the  
nature of the Supreme Divine can not emerge from the social model of  
language. In other words, to understand ‘Vag-yoga’. One needs to  
understand ‘samskrutham aka Sanskrit’ in the following perspectives:  
Vedanga ( Langauge tool for investigation in to the nature of the  
Language –Knowledge – elements and processes), Samskrutham as ‘Deva-  
Bhasha (- the language of the system of knowledge experience through  
the tools of knowledge acquisition called ‘indriyas /devas’), Mantra-  
bhashaa (- the language tool which helps to transcend the frame of  
Mind and go beyond to the source of Desire to Express one self: yato  
vaacho nivartante ) , Veda- Bhashaa (- the language of knowledge –  
Visioning Knowledge). The academia language-religion scholastia  
segment is NOT yet ready for this model of comprehending the ‘Vag-  
Yoga’ of ‘Samskrutham’ referenced by Patanjali in Mahabhashya.  
  
In Indian context, the core understanding of Vag-yoga is seen /  
retained in select practicing traditions at very closely guarded  
circles as a ‘Guhya / Mystic Secret for spiritual aims’. First phase  
of Vag-yoga in the schema of yoga –tantra is on the border of  
‘crossing the Panchabhoota tattva (aakaasha shareeram Brahma).  
Advanced phase of vag-yoga is in the border of ‘ yato-vacho  
nivartante’. For worldly needs, Vag-yoga is a ‘emotion reforming yoga /  
Mind control Yoga (Bhaava shuddhi / Manah Prashamana as yoga  
vashistha calls it) ’.  
  
  
Regards  
  
BVK Sastry

