+++
title = "006 Dr.BVK Sastry"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry	2011-05-17, 23:18:28 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/225xJ74lgrE)]]



Namaste  
  
Thanks to all Samskrutham scholars for deliberating on the topic of  
‘Vag-Yoga’ in relation to Patanjali Identification issue. It still  
leaves the thread open on the following issues, which have a bearing  
on how Samskrutham aka Sanskrit needs to be studied. The open ends in  
the debate are the following: :  
  
V-Yoga-Q-1) What is Vag-Yoga’?  
V-Yoga-Q-2) How one becomes a ‘ Vag-yoga’-vid?  
V-Yoga-Q-3) What is the anchor tradition of Vag-Yoga?  
V-Yoga-Q-4) Why is Patanjali desirous of invoking Yoga in  
Vyakarana discussion, if Vyakarana is just a classical historical  
language grammar , constrained to a social communication focused  
language of a given mobile society?  
  
I am placing my understanding -reflection on these four points  
requesting further interaction.  
\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*  
V-Yoga-Q-1) What is Vag-Yoga’?  
^^^^^^^^^^^^  
BVK Sastry: Vag-Yoga is a tradition which Patanjali inherits from  
Katyayana , according to Udyotakaara. The source of the original  
quote’ yastu prayungthe kushalah..’ is mentioned by Patanjali as  
‘BhrAjAh nAma shlokAh’. This confirms that Vag-yoga tradition is  
ancient and prior to Patanjali at least.  
  
The compound word ‘Vag-yoga’ is resolved in udyota as ‘VAcho Yogah,  
prakruti-pratyaya-vibhAgena artha-vishesha-paratvam’ . Therefore vag-  
yoga is a single word communicative of a singular tradition which is  
an inheritance to Patanjali.  
  
Sub questions:  
  
V-Yoga-Q-1-1) Do we have any more on the ‘BhrajaH’ work attributed to  
Katyayana ?  
  
V-Yoga-Q-1-2) Do we have any more on the ‘Vag-Yoga’ in later  
grammarians’ – part from Sphota, Para-Pashanti- Madhyama-Vaikhari  
model ( generally leaning to Tantra ) ?  
  
V-Yoga-Q-1-3) Do we have any more on the ‘Vag-Yoga’ in the known Yoga  
schools ? And commentaries ? Which probably need to be looked in the  
realm of Patanjali Yoga Sutra 3-17, reading : ShabdArtha-  
pratyayAnAm itaretara-adhyAsAt sankaraH; tat- pravibhAga-saMyamAt  
sarva-bhUta-ruta-jnAnaM :: Translation: There is confusion because  
a word , its intended object and the idea (conveyed) are superimposed  
on one another. If saMyama is practiced on them separately, there is  
knowledge of the sounds of all living beings. (Dr. T S Rukmani’s  
Book) .  
  
  
\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*  
V-Yoga-Q-2) How one becomes a ‘ Vag-yoga’-vid?  
^^^^^^^^^^^^  
BVK Sastry: One becomes a ‘Vag-Yogi’ /Vag-yoga-Vid by practicing Vag-  
Yoga. What then are the practice guidance - details ? It is this  
question which leads to the exploration on ‘Guidance in Vedic  
segments /Upanishads / Brahmanas /Aranyakas’ which speak about ‘Vak’  
as the focus for meditation, Vak as a means for ‘Brahma-JijnAsA’.  
There are far too many references in this regard, and backed by a  
continuity of living tradition.  
  
The core thought of this line of thinking are embedded in ‘Shiksha’  
tradition. The ‘Vedic-Vag-Yoga’ is detailed in Shiksha works related  
to Veda and in Pratishakhyas. The Vag-Yoga of Bhashaa (- where  
Bhashaa is aka Samskrutham aka Paninian Sanskrit ) is detailed in  
the Tantra works and Sri-Vidya related.)  
  
The benefits of Vedic and Bhashaa Vag-Yogas are appropriately stated  
in Patanajali’s primary reference as above: yastu prayungtha  
kushalah.  
  
\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*  
V-Yoga-Q-3) What is the anchor tradition of Vag-Yoga?  
^^^^^^^^^^^^  
BVK Sastry: The anchor of Vag-Yoga is Vedanga ‘Shiksha’ tradition.  
The ‘Vedic-Vag-Yoga’ is detailed in Shiksha works related to Veda and  
in Pratishakhyas. The Vag-Yoga of Bhashaa (-, where Bhashaa is  
aka Samskrutham aka Sanskrit ) is detailed in the Tantra works and  
Sri-Vidya related. Taittiriya upanishad ShikshA-valli is one useful  
point for immediate reference.  
  
\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*  
V-Yoga-Q-4) Why is Patanjali /KatyAyana desirous of invoking Yoga  
in Vyakarana discussion?  
^^^^^^^^^^^^  
BVK Sastry: The opening question in Paspashahnka is :Kimartham Adheyam  
Vyakaraam ? and this deliberation goes in two streams : One for  
(Chandas) Vedas and one for Worldly Langauge (Bhashaa). Panini has  
covered both these aspects in one unified set of rules in Ashtadhyayi.  
Patanjali is reiterating this in the PaspashAnika debate with the  
top branching of Words as : Laukikanam (Words in Worldly usage) and  
VaidikAnAm (Words of Chandas) . The technicality of what is a ‘Word’  
– kastarhi shabdah? - is limited to the ‘Laukika Shabda’; the Vaidika  
shabda nature is NOT detailed.  
  
Udyotakaara points out why this issue is not detailed in Bhashya.  
\<‘Siddhanta vAdI tu vyAkaranasya vedAngatvAd sAmarthyAdavagatiH iti  
matvA aha..> This shows clearly that understanding in traditional  
schools about the mode of Vyakarana study is very clearly understood;  
that ‘words in ‘Chandas’ are not historical, human tinkered poetic  
panegyric tribal constructions with an awe to natures phenomenon /  
please a king /god/s, as indologists / IE linguists /Colonial  
scholars postulate; resulting in making ‘Vedas to become the historic  
documented source of Hinduism, a World Religion’.  
Even though the ‘vedic words’ are used in the worldly usage in a  
‘slack way’, the words of veda do not deserve the same kind of  
treatment as worldy words; When even a laukika –bhashaa word is used  
in the specific context of veda, the method of understanding and  
interpreting it needs to follow special rules. Porting Jaiminiya  
(Vakya shastra) understanding of 'word-meaning debate' in to vyakarana  
(pada-Shastra) in a 'partial -preferred way is a fig-leaf cover for a  
flawed argument !  
  
Picking the sub branch question: What is the advantage of studying  
the rules of vyakarana, ( kAni punaH shabdAnushAsanasya prayojanani),  
the emergent answer is : ‘Vyakarana is to be studied for meeting five  
specific needs in relation to vedic studies. Further elaborating on  
this, ‘Thirteen illustrative Additional benefits of Vyakarana study  
in relation to Veda’ are given. The present quote ‘yastu prayunghte  
kushalah’ comes under the fourth one called ‘ Yastu Prayungthe'- 'What  
If' one uses language-words (Vedic and worldly) in prescribed modes or  
violates the same ? The benefit of rule compliance is anchored to  
Dharma /Veda-Dharma. The related discussions in this segment show  
clearly how the grammar technicalities of Vibhakti- Karaka –Sthana –  
Prayatna for the varnas – Svara –Standard form determination by rule  
compliance –The four fold word classification as nAma-AkhyAta-upasarga-  
nipAta are within the frame of the ‘Vedic Tradition’.  
  
What Patanjali did in Mahabhasya has been continued in Bhartruhari,  
with a leaning towards a derivation of ' Upanishad -Vedanta' from the  
'yoga of Speech'. The Sphota /Shabda-Brahma is the resultant  
technicality. Sphota is the technicality of 'Vag-Yoga-JijnAsa,  
resulting in Shabda-brahma Darshana'.  
  
In this backdrop, if (a) Yoga is considered an integral practice-  
guidance from Vedic tradition (b) If Veda is a ‘ Spiritual Language-  
Speech-Voice Tradition (Vak /Shruti ) , THEN putting the two  
together, Vag-Yoga would mean ‘Yoga of Vak’; which can be understood  
only when one studies ‘Samskrutham aka Sanskrit as ‘Vedanga'.  
  
The question at large stands :Is there any Samskrutham Institution  
teaching the langauge of Vedic traditions in Vedanga model ( - which  
is different from reading the Vaidika prakarana rules in the grammar  
rule book, where veda is handled as a historic document / vedic  
language is a branch out PIE offshoot / African origin ? !) How are we  
studying Samskrutham in the current period - As it was originally  
framed OR in an ' Alien model redefined way, because we are  
doubting / not ready / not willing to stand by a native tradition  
sentried by a half-naked weakling with a 'tuft on head' ?  
  
In my understanding, the method of instructions for study of  
Samskrutham as ‘Vedanga-Vyakarana ‘ is founded on the anchor of  
Shiksha –Sahstra as Vedanga’; Paniniya Shiksha has been sidelined in  
preference to the IPA phonetic system to meet the roman script  
conventions. The primary tradition and pedagogy has been eclipsed in  
the last two hundred years by the ‘colonial / indological / oriental  
model of studying Samskrutham as ‘Historical Sanskrit, on par with the  
classical ( aka dead; not in current worldly usage; not spoken; only  
scripted ) European languages’. This is a consequent of ‘docile  
acceptance of euro-centric views by the traditional schools, failing  
to raise a flag and voice their concerns which has made the ‘sacred  
revelation in to a sacrilegious panegyric of tribal’s migrating to an  
alien land’ PLUS lack of ‘In-house enthusiasm to guard ones own  
cultural, spiritual inheritance properly’, resulting in ‘barren  
research in the field of Sanskrit.  
  
Please do not mistake this anguish for a language tradition in to any  
other way of critiquing any scholar or school, please.  
  
It is in this context, further deliberations on Vag-Yoga’ are  
requested.  
  
  
Regards  
  
BVK Sastry  
  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------  

On May 16, 9:37pm, "Saroja Bhate" \<[sar...@bhates.net]()\> wrote:  
\> I agree with both. Madhav and HN Bhat.The verse talks about, I feel ,a person in general, and says that if he is kushala etc in his use of words he becomes vaagyogavid and victorious, but if he uses apashabdas he is defiled. Vaagyogavid can be thus understood as the epithet, compliment of the kushala person  Thus we can avoid the confusion arising by construing Vaagyogavid with dushyati caapashabdaih.Patanjali shows, in his usual style, the possibility of alternative interpretation( or misinterpretation) of the line and plays with the words. If sah is the agent of the sentence with two clauses, namely. jayam aapnoti and dushyati  
\>  
\> there is no confusion. This ism my humble attempt to solve the problem.  
\>  
\> Best  
\>  
\> Bhate  
\>  
\>  \_\_\_\_\_   
\>  



