+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-12-10, 07:16:40 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/1C5eURo6i2g)]]



Sarasvati (Purana-style rendering of Itihaasa of Bharata)

Excerpts: \[Pavithra Srinivasan, 2010, *Chandamama* (Childrens’ Illustrated Magazine), November 2010, pp. 36-38\]



Historical note: King Parikshit was the first of the Paurava Princes to rule Saptasindhavah, following the Great Bharata War, around 1400 BCE. It is said that he ruled benignly, and chased away the ills that had plagued his kingdom until then. His descendants eventually formed the first ruling dynasty of India…Vishnudatta pointed to the snow-capped mountains. “River Saraswathi is great, now, but her chief source of water is the melting glaciers that pour down the mountains. All through our journey, people have been talking of how the water is growing less, each year. It means that the snow in the mountains doesn’t her as much as it used to. She survives by water sources along the way, but something keeps the glacier-reserve from adding to it. I’m guessing it’s the earth-quakes. The mountains are shifting. Soon, they will cut off the water-supply. Saraswathi will dry up. ” Everyone looked horrified. “And you believe that she will die?” Grandfather asked. More gasps. “No,” Vishnu said. “Someday, men will discover a way to release her power. She will survive and nurture us. But for that to happen, she must disappear for a while. “

  

Read on about the River Goddess...<http://www.docstoc.com/docs/65878497/sarasvatichandamamanov2010>

