+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2011-07-27, 05:34:46 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/y-N2Iw1fACI)]]



Position: South Asian History, Assistant Professor, Amherst College,  
Departments of History and Asian Languages and Civilizations

  

Amherst College, History  
  
Assistant Professor, South Asian History  
  
  
Institution Type: College / University  
Location: Massachusetts, United States  
Position: Assistant Professor  
  
  
  
The Departments of History and Asian Languages & Civilizations at Amherst College invite applications for a tenure-track position in South Asian history at the Assistant Professor level. The appointment will be shared by the two departments. We welcome applications from candidates who specialize in any period but who are prepared to teach courses in both pre-modern and modern South Asian history. We seek a colleague with strong commitments to scholarship and to teaching a diverse undergraduate student body. The teaching load is two courses per semester. Candidates should also be prepared to advise senior thesis projects in both departments and to participate in the life of the college. Candidates must have the Ph.D. degree in hand or all requirements for the degree fulfilled by the start of the appointment.
Send a letter of application, curriculum vitae, three letters of recommendation, a writing sample, and syllabi for two proposed courses to: South Asia Search Committee, Department of History, P.O Box 2254, Amherst College, Amherst MA 01002-5000. Review of applications will begin on November 1, 2011, and continue until the position is filled.  
  
Amherst College is a private undergraduate liberal arts college for men and women, with 1,700 students and 200 faculty members. Located in the Connecticut River Valley of western Massachusetts, Amherst participates with Hampshire, Mount Holyoke, and Smith Colleges and the University of Massachusetts in the Five-College Consortium. For all faculty positions, completion of the Ph.D. or appropriate equivalent is expected. Candidates should have a strong commitment to undergraduate and interdisciplinary teaching in a liberal arts context, and a well-articulated plan for sustained research.  
  
Amherst College is an equal opportunity employer and encourages women, persons of color, and persons with disabilities to apply. The College is committed to enriching its educational experience and its culture through the diversity of its faculty, administration, and staff.  
  
  
  
Contact: South Asia Search Committee  
Department of History  
Amherst College  
AC# 22524  
Amherst, MA 01002-5000  
  
  
Website: None  
Primary Category: South Asian History / Studies  
  
Secondary Categories: None  
Posting Date: 07/26/2011  
Closing Date 11/01/2011  

  

Kalyanaraman

[  
](http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.com/)[http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.com](http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.com/)

<http://tinyurl.com/4xguuoh> (Rastram: Flipkart in India)

  

