+++
title = "000 Dr. Tirumala Kulakarni"

+++
[[Dr. Tirumala Kulakarni	2012-09-22, 10:31:07 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/HqxbBNI3wP8)]]



Dears

  

I find this news interesting.

  

International University of Buddhist-Indic Studies is going to be established in Madhyapradesh. Is there any relation with Sanskrit?  
  

If yes, in what ways? If no, can some one related to Madhyapradesh etc. can try?

  

I have heard that Sanskrit centre in JNU, Delhi has both Sanskrit and Pali experts. Is it possible to explore new opportunities for study/research/employment?

  

TK

  

---------- Forwarded message ----------  
From: **S. Kalyanaraman** \<[kaly...@gmail.com]()\>  
Date: Wed, Sep 19, 2012 at 6:54 AM  
  
  

<http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.in/2012/09/international-university-of-buddhist.html>

  

## 18.9.12

### International University of Buddhist-Indic Studies, Sanchi: Inauguration on Friday, 21 Sept. 2012

  

  
New varsity will be tribute to Buddhist revivalist  
  
Tuesday, September 18th 2012, 11:00 AM  
  
Kolkata, Sep 18 — A proposed international university Sri Lankan President Mahinda Rajapaksa will inaugurate in Sanchi Friday will be a tribute to a famed Buddhist revivalist who had great love for India.  
The new international university of Buddhist and Indic Studies, to come up at Sanchi in Madhya Pradesh, will be "a befitting tribute" to Anagarika Dharmapala, Sri Lankan diplomat Sugeeswara Senadhira said here.  
Senadhira was speaking at an event to mark the 148th birth anniversary of Dharmapala here Monday.  
The Sri Lankan president arrives in New Delhi Wednesday night. He will meet Prime Minister Manmohan Singh Thursday and he will be in Sanchi a day later.  
  
Senadhira recalled Dharmapala's great affection for India and his stated desire to be re-born in India in his next reincarnation.  
  
He said Dharmapala's vision was that the Indian subcontinent should take the prime place in the world as the centre of wisdom.  
  
<http://india.nydailynews.com/politicsarticle/204ee1628952abed50e0291c8449f2be/new-varsity-will-be-tribute-to-buddhist-revivalist>  
  
Officers told to complete work for stone laying  
TUESDAY, 18 SEPTEMBER 2012 16:56 STAFF REPORTER.\|.BHOPAL HITS: 49  
  
Foundation laying of Buddhist and Indian Knowledge Studies University at Sanchi will be the first function in the State to be attended by two heads of States. Establishment of this university is being hailed in various countries.  
  
Culture Minister Laxmikant Sharma said this during inspection of preparations being made for the university’s foundation laying ceremony at Sanchi on Monday. He directed the officers concerned to complete all necessary arrangements within the time-limit. Sharma went round the foundation laying site, function venue and other places.  
  
He said that advance publicity would be made about the pathway being developed for common people in view of VVIPs’ security. Secretary, Public Relations, Rakesh Shrivastava and other officers were present on the occasion.  
  
It may be mentioned that foundation laying for the university’s building would be made on September 21 at Sanchi in Raisen district. About \`200 crore would be spent on construction of this building.  
  
Sri Lankan President Mahinda Rajapaksa, Bhutanese Prime Minister Leo Jigme Thinley and a number of Buddhist monks would participate in the function. After ratification by Governor Ram Naresh Yadav, the State Government has issued a notification for establishment of Sanchi Buddhist and Indian Knowledge Studies University. The university would coordinate between basic principles of Indian knowledge and concepts with those of other cultures and civilizations of the world and promote research and studies to this effect. The university would impart teaching in principles of Dhamma, Buddhism education, current philosophies and traditions.  
  
<http://www.dailypioneer.com/state-editions/bhopal/95313-officers-told-to-complete-work-for-stone-laying.html>  
  

Setting up Sanchi Uni., a step towards promoting peace – Madhya Pradesh CM tells Vaiko  
  
  
Details Published on Monday, 17 September 2012 15:25 Hits: 599  
  
The setting up of the Sanchi University is an attempt to bring the civilisations of Asian countries closer \[and\] will promote cross-pollination of ideas between ancient Indian thought and the thriving Buddhist culture in various countries of Asia, Madhya Pradesh chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan said.  
  
In a letter to Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK) general secretary Vaiko, the chief Minister urged to regard the event as a constructive step towards promoting peace and harmony across countries of Asia and asked him to call off the protest against President Mahinda Rajapaksa’s scheduled visit to Sanchi for laying the foundation stone of International Buddhist University.  
  
The Chief Minister also said that in order to set up a truly international university and for achieving the desired goals, invitations had been sent to the Heads of States and dignitaries of Bhutan, Myanmar, Thailand, South Korea, Japan, Sri Lanka, Mangolia, Cambodia, and Nepal.  
  
“The Prime Ministers of Bhutan and President of Sri Lanka have accepted our invitation for the foundation laying ceremony,” Mr. Chauhan wrote, adding that Bhutan Prime Minister Lyonchen Jigme Yoser Thinley has even confirmed his participation.  
  
Sri Lanka's High Commissioner in India Prasad Kariyawasam has said that the Indian Police and security forces have started special operations to identify anti-Sri Lankan elements.  
  
The central Indian government is keen on maintaining positive relations between the two countries and the President's visit to India will lead to further strengthen the bilateral relations, he has said.  
  
During his stay in India President Rajapaksa is scheduled to hold bilateral discussions with Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and President Pranab Mukherji.  
<http://www.news.lk/news/sri-lanka/3161-setting-up-sanchi-uni-a-step-towards-promoting-peace--madhya-pradesh-cm-tells-vaiko>  
Rajapaksa visit: MP-bound MDMK workers likely to be arrested  
STAFF WRITER 19:49 HRS IST  
Chhindwara (MP), Sep 18 (PTI) MDMK workers heading for Sanchi near Bhopal to protest against the visit of Sri Lankan President Mahinda Rajapaksa there are likely to be arrested by Madhya Pradesh Police in Pandhurna town bordering Maharashtra.  
  
Rajapaksa is scheduled to participate in the foundation- laying ceremony of International Buddhist University at Sanchi on Friday.  
<http://www.ptinews.com/news/2979528_Rajapaksa-visit--MP-bound-MDMK-workers-likely-to-be-arrested->  
MP police on alert as Vaiko firm on protesting Lanka PM visit  
TUESDAY, 18 SEPTEMBER 2012 16:58 STAFF REPORTER.\|.BHOPAL  
Following the decision of Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK) leader Vai Gopalsamy (Vaiko) to show black-flags to Sri Lankan President Mahinda Rajapaksha, Madhya Pradesh police have decided to provide the strongest-ever security cover to the guest during the foundation laying ceremony of Buddhist University at Sanchi on September 20.  
  
A three-member team of MDMK is already camping in the State capital for the past three days and chalking out a strategy to stage protest demonstrations. Sources claimed these members were attempting to garner support from locals.  
  
Meanwhile, the State police have decided to completely block the movement of villagers on routes on which the Sri Lankan President would pass. The residents of villages adjoining Sanchi have been asked to remain indoors from morning to afternoon on September 20, till Rajapaksha leaves for Bhopal airport.  
  
Police sources said, the Lankan President would fly to Sanchi in a chopper after alighting at Bhopal airport. Since Vaiko is planning to show black-flags to Rajapaksha, heavy police force would be deployed at Sanchi.  
  
Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had three days ago appealed to the MDMK leader to call off the protest. In a letter to Vaiko, Chouhan had stated that the function at Sanchi was completely apolitical. It should be seen as an endeavour to promote peace and harmony among the Asian countries. He had also assured Vaiko that he stood by the Tamils on the issue of human rights.  
  
Having rejected the appeal from Chief Minister, Vaiko decided to go ahead with his planned black-flag demonstration against Sri Lankan President.  
  
Sources stated that Vaiko had already left his home state by bus along with supporters in other vehicles on Monday night. As claimed by Vaiko, he would be accompanied by around 1000 supporters.  
Comments  
  
  
0 #2 Raja 2012-09-19 05:27  
Viako an Indian, who along with Karunanindi, Seeman, Nadumaran and other Indians, who aided and abetted Prabakaran and his terrorist LTTE gang, to violate all human rights of SriLankans and most of all the Tamils living in the North, through brutal inhuman actions, including the denial of schooling for tamil children, denial of farming and fishing for tamil adults, is now crying for human rights for SriLankan Tamils by trying to blame President Rajapakse, the very man who liberated them from the tyranny of Vaiko's LTTE terrorist friends. I believe Vaiko is suffering from acute guilty concience and is afraid he would be one day arrested along with his accomplices for aiding and abetting LTTE terrorists in neighbouring SriLanka. Why wont Vaiko fight for the emancipation of Tamils labeled as "low cate" in India?  
Quote  
  
  
+1 #1 jesudasan 2012-09-19 01:53  
Psycho Vaiko should set fire to himself in protest not just hold black flags. If he were to do that then we will believe he is genuinely opposing the visit and not just a vote winning exercise.  
<http://www.dailypioneer.com/state-editions/bhopal/95315-mp-police-on-alert-as-vaiko-firm-on-protesting-lanka-pm-visit.html>

  

--  
S. Kalyanaraman

<https://sites.google.com/site/kalyan97/national-water-grid>

<https://sites.google.com/site/indianoceancommunity1/>

  

--  
--  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google  
Groups "Foundation for Indian Scientific Heritage" group.  
To post to this group, send email to  
[foundation-for-india...@googlegroups.com]()  
To unsubscribe from this group, send email to  
[foundation-for-indian-scie...@googlegroups.com]()  
For more options, visit this group at  
<http://groups.google.co.in/group/foundation-for-indian-scientific-heritage?hl=en?hl=en-GB>  
HERITAGE AWARENESS MAKES AN ENLIGHTENED CITIZEN.  
  
  

  
  

  

--  
Dr. Tirumala Kulakarni  
Asst. Prof. Alankara Dept.  
Poornaprajna Vidyaapeetha  
Vidyapeetha Circle  
BANGALORE 560 028  
Ph: [+91 9448879734](tel:+91%2094488%2079734)  
  

