+++
title = "000 Dr. Kishor Kumar Tripathy"

+++
[[Dr. Kishor Kumar Tripathy	2021-11-05, 11:36:33 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/zBmVVw6BmuE)]]



Dear Sir/Madam,

Greetings from AuroBharati, Sri Aurobindo Society, Pondicherry.

It is indeed a matter of great pleasure for me to inform you that I joined as Member Secretary of AuroBharati, Sri Aurobindo Society, Pondicherry. Sri Aurobindo Society is an international, spiritual, cultural, not-for-profit NGO.

SAS has been recognized by the Government of India as a Charitable Organization, a Research Institute and an Institute of importance throughout India. With the head office in Pondicherry and over 300 branches and centres, SAS invites participation from all those who want to work together for a better tomorrow, with no distinction of nationality, religion, caste or gender.

SAS organizes programmes and initiatives that seek to bring dynamic Spiritual into material life and all its activities with multidisciplinary focus on Action Research, SAS is setting up models, centres of excellence and training institutes that are sustainable, scalable and Replicable.

Bhavani Bharati, Sri Aurobindo’s only poem in Sanskrit, written between 1904 and 1908, speaks of the awakening of the Indian heart and mind to the cry of the Shakti, the Mother of the Nation, to work untiringly to bring about the victory of Truth over Falsehood, of Dharma over Ignorance. Later, in his Essays on the Gita, Sri Aurobindo reminds us – “We do not belong to the past dawns, but to the noons of the future.” Taking inspiration from these, Sri Aurobindo Society has renamed its vertical on Indian Culture as ‘AUROBHARATI’ with the guiding spirit of our work reflected in the phrase ‘India – From Past Dawns to Future Noons’.

AuroBharati strives to rediscover the genius and outstanding magnificence of Indian culture and works to apply it dynamically to life and all its activities in modern India. It aspires to evoke among the youth a great love for India, pride in their heritage and an aspiration and will to create an even greater future. We are guided by Sri Aurobindo’s words - “A rebirth of the soul of India into a new body of energy, a new form of its innate and ancient spirit, …must insist much more ﬁnally and integrally than it has as yet done on its spiritual turn, on the greater and greater action of the spiritual motive in every sphere of our living.”

  

OUR VISION AND MISSION

- To work towards generating a love for Mother India and to develop a deeper understanding of her culture including religion, philosophy, literature, arts, ethics, sciences her social and political ethos based on her high values, ideals and aspirations.  

- To research and prepare all types of inspiring resource materials and to organize various types of programmes, making use of the latest technology, which can be taken to individuals and institutions nationally and globally, including students, youth, adults, and various teaching and learning institutions.

- To work for the propagation of Sanskrit as a language of consciousness and the ancient scripturesas a treasure-house of the riches in Indian culture.

- To work for the unity and greatness of India so that it can give its best and play its true role in the world, as a leader in the ways of the Spirit and a friend and helper of all the peoples.

- To protect, preserve and conserve the national heritage of India with special emphasis on tangible and intangible cultural heritage based on cultural interactions and an effective system of networking.



With regards,

Dr. Kishor Kumar Tripathy

Member Secretary,

AuroBharati, Sri Aurobindo Society

11, Saint Martin Street, Pondicherry

E-[kishor....@aurosociety.org]()

Phone: [+91-413-2336396](tel:+91%20413%20233%206396)/97/98,Ext.241

M- 91-96508 20241/91- 83688 59754

Website: [www.aurosociety.org/www.aurobharati.in](http://www.aurosociety.org/www.aurobharati.in)





