+++
title = "003 VKG"

+++
[[VKG	2011-08-02, 05:18:33 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/chy4p_ZHC4g)]]



Dear Sri Kalyana Raman/ Yadu!  
  
Most of us subscribe to the common belief that we belong to this place  
and not migrants, as purported by the perverted historians with a  
vested interest.  
  
As Sri Rama Karan has pointed out, it is the leftist education/  
British Historian Mentored ruling classes; who are out to negate  
anything glorifying India.  
  
  
Hence, an academic support committee to provide various such sources  
to rubbish AIT/ AIM should be formed online. Sri Pandurangi had in  
fact, posted one such excellent collection to prove this; some time  
back..  
  
Ofcourse,the Frontrunner campaign shall be handled by experienced  
people of Samskruta Bharati.  
Agenda (By Executive/ Academic/ Legal means along with media campaign)  
1. Remove the notion/ Fallacy from history books that we are migrants.  
2. Correct the anomaly of fixing timelines for Indian Scriptures. If  
they do not want to accept the Nityaa Vaak, Apourusheya - no problem.  
It can be stated that, it is certainly not after 7BC/ 10 BC etc. (By  
this wording, we are supporting the tradition and also not confronting  
the rationalist.)  
  
Ofcourse, many cheer leaders (like us) can wish, pray for the success  
of this campaign.  
Regards  
Dr.Vamshi Krishna Ghanapathi  
Mysore  

  
On Aug 2, 3:10am, "Dr. Yadu Moharir" \<[ymoha...@yahoo.com]()\> wrote:  
\> Namaste Dr Sharma:  
\>  
\> What you have said is true. But who is responsible for it also needs to be considered, admitted and then acted upon.  
\>  
\> I recall the famous word for US Chief Justice Warren Burgers, while responding to the current state of affairs:  
\>  
\> "If you ask the question, who is responsible, it must be I am, you are we are .........."  
\>  
\> Similarly, Sanskrit scholars need to shoulder the responsibility the current state of affairs. Few months ago we had a discussion that students (faculties) do not know how to choose the topic for Ph.D. There were more than 99 Ph.D Thesis on the term Atma. Even after than I am sure there will be additional 100's using the same term and following the same line of discussions that do not lead anywhere. It is easy to talk about aatham and brahman because on one can challenge it and we all feel good about it.  
\>  
\> What I am trying to say here is that unless there is proper application Sanskrit and it's significance will never get anywhere.  
\>  
\> If one says that Grammar was important as it helps on understand, especially the brahmin who sacrificed the small cow with big brown spots or healthy cow with small brown spots? Then that is OK, because here one is providing the purpose and intricateness of the language.  
\>  
\> Finally, whatever changes one needs to see needs to have a purpose, otherwise it looses it's significance. I regard this as the real spirituality of that act or deliberation.  
\>  
\> Unless one finds this utility, upauktataa, which is commonly known as viniyoga portion things are not likely to improve.  
\>  
\> Politicians and others will listen when scholars can give some concrete utility for Sanskrit language, just like what UK has done for middle school students, to improve pronunciation.  
\>  
\> Again, there is so much scholarship on this list only is they think and apply that scholarship to some specific problems. Just like, geometry and algebra gains importance only when applied to trigonometry, astronomy and engineering ... etc.  
\>  
\> My apologies but I just could not resist but speak my mind as a scientist who constantly interacts with Sanskrit scholars to understand various technical terminologies used in our scriptures and try top determine their potential application to the present..  
\>  
\> If scholars do no do something then who will? Why do we have to depend on Western researchers to bring ancient scriptures to the forefront and then award then the padmashrii ?  
\>  
\> I sincerely hope that scholars will take proper action and contribute through their own expertise.  
\>  
\> Best regards,  
\>  
\> Dr. Yadu  
\>  
\> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  

\> From: Ram Sharma \<[ramkaransha...@yahoo.com]()\>  

\> To: "[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()" \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
\> Sent: Monday, August 1, 2011 12:42 PM  
\> Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Death of Aryan myth in Hindu civilization studies  
\>  
\> It is only when Ministry of Human Resource Development,Central Board of Secondary Education,NCERT ,and political leaders who are bent upon throwing Sanskrit or allunifying Sanskrit tradition into the Wastepaper basket are persuaded to listen to the unifying voice of a nonHindu exPresident,the brainwashing already done by so called historians can be mitigated .  
\> Ram Karan Sharma  
\>  



