+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-09-30, 05:25:55 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/lsOMNaUMg3w)]]



# Muslim scholar translates Ramayana into Urdu

Binay Singh, TNN, Sep 30, 2010  
  

VARANASI: Concerned but not overly so about the Ayodhya judgment and its ramifications, a 22-year-old Muslim woman from an unlettered family of weavers is translating 'Ramcharitmanas' into Urdu, setting a fine example of inter-community accord in this communally sensitive city. Said Nazneen, ''Whatever be the high court's verdict, it should be respected by all. But one can't deny that Ayodhya is the birthplace of Lord Ram.''  
  
This bright alumnus of Mahatma Gandhi Kashi Vidyapeeth further said, ''So far, I have completed the translation up to Sunderkand. I hope to conclude my work in the next month-and-a-half.'' Nazneen has already translated into Urdu the Hanuman Chalisa by legendary poet Goswami Tulsidas, as also Durga Chalisa or verses in praise of the goddess.  
  
She said, ''Even if the verdict comes in favour of Muslims, they should come forward generously to build a temple of Ram in Ayodhya. Islam never permits a mosque at a disputed site. Ram is not for Hindus alone; his character is a source of inspiration for people of all communities.''  
  
Nazneen derives inspiration from writers and scholars of Mughal period like Abdul Qadir Badayuni who had translated Ramayana and Mahabharata in Arabic and Persian during the period of Mughal emperor Akbar. Nazneen is the only qualified person in her family, living in Lallapura area of Varanasi.

  

<http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/Muslim-scholar-translates-Ramayana-into-Urdu/articleshow/6654596.cms>  
  

## MONDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2005

### [Muslim Intellectual Perception of Hinduism](http://islamicindia.blogspot.com/2005/10/muslim-intellectual-perception-of.html)

The establishment of Turkic rule in India opened up many opportunities for contact between Hinduism and Islam. A number of Muslim scholars had made some significant attempts to understand Hinduism. Al-Biruni, Amir Khusrau, Nakhshabi, Mir Gesudaraz, Abul Fazl and Dara Shukoh were among the Muslim intellectuals, who had given considerable contribution to Muslim understanding of Hinduism. Not only Muslim scholars, some Muslim rulers too took part in this attempt by encouraging the Muslim scholars of their time to translate Hindu books.  
  
Al-Biruni (d. after 1050) translated Sanskrit classics into Arabic. He then wrote his “Kitab fi Tahqiq ma li al-Hind” in order to acquaint his Ghaznawid rulers with Hinduism. He admitted that there were many barriers separating Hindus from Muslims but claimed that they werebasedeither on politicalreasonsor on language barriers. He found the contemporary Hindus were full of religious prejudices, insularity, exclusiveness,nationalpride, and conceit. Al-Biruni admits that previous generations of Hindus were more liberal but stresses that prejudices against foreigners were universal. He also acknowledges the fact that, although the Hindus he met refused toenterinto religious arguments, many Muslims forbade any discussion at all on religious matters.  
  
Al-Biruni’s main thesis in the “Kitab fi Tahqiq ma li al-Hind” is that the beliefs of educated and uneducated people are different. The educated tries to conceive abstract ideas and to define general principles while the uneducated submit to derived rules and regulations. In the concept of God al-Biruni says that Hindu believe that the God is eternal, without beginning and end, acting by free will, almighty, all wise, living, giving life, ruling, preserving, unique, beyond all likeness and unlikeness. To substantiate this assertion, he quotes from Patanjali’s Yoga Sutra, the Bhagavad Gita and the Sankhya-Karika.  
  
Being a mathematician and scientist, al-Biruni was hostile to mystical ideas. He refused sufi irrationalism and compared Muslim alchemy and Hindu rasayana (chemistry) with witchcraft. In his “Kitab fi Tahqiq” he explains Hindu caste, class and family organization, their cultural attitudes, folk customs, mores and prejudices in a historical context. He defines the Hindu colordivisionsas tabaqat (classes) and the caste (jati) as birth divisions (nasab). The Brahmans were created from the head of Brahma, the Kshatriya from his shoulder and hands, the Vaishiya from his thigh, while the Sudra from his feet. Below the Sudra were the Antyaja or casteless. Hadi, Doma and Chandala were outcast.  
  
Amir Khusrau was deeply impressed by India, but his studies of Hinduism were not based on Sanskrit sources. He was impressed by by the depth of learning among Indians and their ability to speak any language. He greatly admired Brahmans, who could teach all subjects without having studied to overseas and who had devised the numerical system, invented zero, invented chess and written “Kalila wa Dimna”, on the art of government. He found Indian music has peculiarcharmnot only for human but to animals also. He admitted that the Hindus believed in the unity and eternity of God and were superior to materialists, star worshippers, and Christian. Although the Hindus worshipped stones, animals, plants and the sun, they believed that these things were god’s creations and they only imitated their ancestors. In his masnavis called “Nuh Siphr” (Nine Skies), he admired the devotion and enthusiasm of the Hindus for their religion and urged the Muslims to be as devoted to their faith as they were.  
  
Nakhshabi, who has better better understanding of Sanskrit had translated two Sanskrit works, one of them Chintamani Batha’s “Suka-saptati”. Mir Gesudaraz also studied Sanskrit to defeat the Brahman’s arguments andconvertthem to Islam. On the basis of the translation of works on physics and astronomy, Izzuddin Khalid Khani compiled the “Dala’il Firoz Shahi”. Varahamihira, a celebrated Indian astronomer, translated “Brhatsamhita” from Sanskrit to Persian.  
  
Abul Fazl gave adetaileddescription of Hinduism in the third volume oh his “’Ain –e-Akbari”. He urged his Muslim readers to study his account of Hindu learning with open minds. He was convinced that the Hindus followed their faith uncritically and were prey to superstition.  
  
Dara Shukoh translated the Upanishads in order to discover any wahdatul wujud doctrines hidden in them. He accused the Hindu pandits oh hiding the upanishadic truth from both Muslims and Hindus in order to keep their teachings on the wahdatul wujud secret. Dara Shukoh believed that his translation would help mystics of both faiths, although he stressed the primacy of the Quran, the translation proved to be of universal interest.  
  
Several Muslim rulers also ordered the translation of various Sanskrit works into Persian in order to satisfy their own intellectual curiosity and to increase Muslim understanding of Hinduism. Firoz Shah Tughlug commissioned Sanskrit scholars to translate some 1,300 books from “Jwalamukhi” temple into Persian. Sultan Zaynul ‘Abidin of Kashmir and Sultan Sikandar Lodi also ordered the translation of Sanskrit books into Persian. In order to heal the religious differences amongst his subject, King Akbar opened translation bureau (the maktab khana), which considerably change the Muslim perception of Hinduism. The most remarkable productions were the translations of the “Mahabharata”, “Ramayana” and “Yoga Vashishta”.  
  
Shaikh Ahmad Sirhindi, a sufi of Naqshabandi order, considered that prophets had come to India, although the Indians generally ignored their teachings. He did not believe that Rama and Krishna were prophets nor they were divine names. Mirza Mazhar Jan-I-Janan, in contrary, accepted both Rama and Krishna as prophets.

<http://islamicindia.blogspot.com/2005/10/muslim-intellectual-perception-of.html>  
  

  

A deputation of Sindhi representatives in*771 CE*presented many treatises to the Caliph and the[Brahma Siddhanta of Brahmagupta](http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=tl:1&q=brahma%20siddhanta%20of%20brahmagupta&sa=X&ei=_8KjTNL5GoaBlAetu4nLCw&ved=0CDIQ0AEoADAB)...[www.bharatvani.org/books/tlmr/ch1.htm](http://www.bharatvani.org/books/tlmr/ch1.htm)

  

Shahi Khan became the king of Kashmir in*1420...*He was well versed in Persian and Sanskrit, had the Mahabharat translated into Persian...

  

...The Growth and development of mysticism in Islam was noticed first in two Islam - dominated localities, i.e. - ancient Khorasan and Mesopotamia. The seekers of truth as well as the wise ones of Muslim community belonging to these two places came in contact with Indian mysticism. During the Muslim invasion, the entire Khorasan was decorated with Buddhist Bihars and Hindu temples. The description of Hu-en-sang supplies us with this information. There were centres of education in Mesopotamia, Damascus, Baghdad etc. The Hindu scholars were used to teach there Indian science and Hindu Yogis were used to be involved in debate with the Muslim scholars. The Hindu Physicians, Astrologers and Scientists were generally invited to Bagdad. From the period the patronisation was noticed in promoting the translation of the original Sanskrit works. Thus monotheism and practical application of discipline of yoga was introduced in the belt of Sufism of Middle-East...Darashiko was a source of intellectual, cultural and social movement. The friendship between the Sufi devotees and Hindu yogis were deep-rooted. Most of the spiritual process of the Hindus were accepted by the Sufi devotees. Muhibullah, the famous Sufi devotee of Illahabad said that it is adverse to the actual ideal of Islam to differentiate between Hindus and Muslims. Kalimullah, the Sufi devotee of Delhi, thinks that it is the duty of all philosophies and religions to teach and show the proper process of memorisation of the name of God, not the conversion to a different religions...<http://www.exoticindiaart.com/book/details/IDG424/>

  

## Demystification of the Islamic Rule in India, Part Iby Ibrahim Lone<http://www.islam-watch.org/Ibrahim.Lone/Demystification-of-the-Islamic-Rule-in-India.htm>

The legacy of Jihad...Andrew Bostom<http://www.andrewbostom.org/loj/>

  

  

