+++
title = "015 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-06-06, 09:02:35 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/cIVmS1sx67E)]]



Namaste Prof. Deshpande ji



1. I agree that there is a need to revisit the topic : \< So the British approach to Sanskrit needs to be studied in some detail. \> .



 It is certainly critical step to rewrite the ‘ Deviation and Decadence introduced in the traditional study of Paninian language as ‘ Vedanga Vyakarana’ to the new paradigm of ‘ Sanskrit: A member of
Indo –Aryan language families’ based on the ‘ unquestioned axiom of ‘ Tower of Babel ‘ narrative.



 **Damage to the language tools of text and slackening the standards of text-scholarship totally alters the intended meaning, the practices, the culture and identity of communities/ nay, Nations.**

** This is an extension of Dr. Yadu’s statement: **Using languages loosely totally alters the intended meaning.

****

2. A supplemental note that also needs to be explored here is the issue :’ How Guru-Kuls in South India at large kept themselves insulated from the ‘ Indology – Theology framework promoted at Universities with Government patronage’ and survive till date, despite social and academic treatment of traditional scholars as ‘ pariyahs’ for over two centuries now !. 



When studying history, it is a post-mortem and there need to be no hurt feeling or ‘ injustice suffered’ syndrome.





Before Concluding: A less frequented work of 600 pages / eight volumes,
titled : History of Indian Philosophy ( Vol-7) , authored by S.K. Belvalkar and Ranade , Printed in 1933 may be a good starting resource to see the ‘ Indian Scholars digesting Soft-Evangelism and allowing the ‘ SAMENESS’ syndrome to become the signature DNA of SOFT- HINDUTVA’, promoted through channels of Universities ! Specific attention is drawn to the chapter dealing with ‘INDIAN MYSTICISM: Mysticism in Maharashtra’. The complete book of around 600 pages can be downloaded from the archieves.





It may also be important for current generation scholars to contemplate:
Does these works capture the traditional teaching of Gita reflected
as in Jnaneswari ? Is this the way Gita summarized the wisdom of Vedas to deliver the frame work of ‘ Sanatana Dharma’ ?? Why and How Vedas and Gita are superior to Old Testament is a separate issue for scholars; a socially very sensitive issue that needs to be deliberated carefully.








Regards

BVK Sastry



