+++
title = "006 rniyengar"

+++
[[rniyengar	2012-03-24, 10:18:34 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/_ky-eCSWkYs)]]



Dear Dr.Narayanan,  
The discussion may drift towards 'planetary or horoscopic astrology'  
and I am afraid of it!  
  
As far as I have understood in the vedic texts, auspiciousness is not  
so much associated with joining/conjunction of celestial positions. On  
otherhand such conjunctions are "special power points or instatnts of  
time". For DP the name itself indicates it has to be newmoon and  
fullmoon. The precise conjunctions vary and they can not be measured/  
observed precisely. This point of time is 'amUrta'. (It is like  
telling the dimension of a point is zero and the thickness of a line  
is zero in Geometry). We know it is there, but can not capture it! So  
for practical applications some rules are prescribed. In the sense of  
"auspiciousness" there are prescriptions for seed sowing, marriage etc  
(that may be called Muhurtas)in terms of nakshatras or position of  
moon with some particular stars. Position of Sun in terms of season  
are also mentioned in some texts. Link with Janma-nakshatra can be  
surmised in some places. Eclipses should have played an important role  
but vedic textual evidences are not available on how these were  
considered. For example DP rite is supposed to be done for 15 or 30  
years or life long. Even for minor transgressions in the rites,  
prayaschitta aahutis are prescribed meticulously. But surprisingly  
there is no mention of eclipses which surely would have occurred on FM/  
NM over a long period of time. The only discrimination I could find  
was that Agnis.oma is invoked on FM, where as Indraagni is to be  
invoked on NM. May be the ancients who knew the reasons kept them as  
secret.  
  
By contrast inauspiciousness is implied in certain cases by the  
Adbhuta Brahman.a a chapter in the Shadvimsha Br. Comets covering  
Saptarshi mandala,was one such. what we call VEdic period would have  
been 1000 years long or more! Concepts of auspiciousness etc would  
have dramtically changed and your quotation is quite apt. It is  
अदृष्ट (Chance) and विश्वास (belief) that becomes important. I am not  
writing this in any manner to belittle our cultural heritage and  
tradition. But dramatically different traditions are mentioned even in  
Vedic texts. One example is about Udagayana. Is this when Sun crosses  
the equinox (yesterday was equinox!)in March and stays in the north of  
the equator or when sun turns north from the extreme southern position  
in December? As per the Vedanga Jyotisha it is the latter (Uttaram  
prati ayanam). However as BG Tilak has shown the older tradition was  
the former (Uttare ayanam), when Sun would be with the Deva nakshatras  
for six months. So what is auspiciousness? For me it appears to be a  
result of अदृष्ट and विश्वास.  
  
with kind regards  
  
RN Iyengar  



