+++
title = "000 Dr. P. Ramanujan"

+++
[[Dr. P. Ramanujan	2012-11-12, 21:40:15 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/C4TxEL0tHQw)]]



I think you may consult a similar study in the 1990s by Lars Martin Fosse  
from University of Oslo.  
  
Ramanujan  
On Mon, Nov 12, 2012, Aniket Deshmukh \<[danik...@gmail.com]()\> said:  
  
\> Respected Scholars and members of भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्,  
\>  
\> I am a final year undergraduate student from the Department of Electrical  
\> Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Hyderabad, INDIA. I'm  
\> currently working on project- "Information Theoretic Analysis of evolution  
\> of Sanskrit Language". I have a doubt pertaining to my project regarding  
\> literary works in Sanskrit. I humbly request you to clear the doubt, which  
\> I have described in the upcoming paragraphs.  
\>  
\> In my project,I evaluated various Information Theory parameters and tested  
\> them on Sanskrit text files of different sizes. I collected a text database  
\> of Sanskrit literature - from Rig Veda to Gita Govinda and Padyavali and  
\> based on results from the Information Theory parameters, studied the  
\> evolution of Sanskrit language.The database(text files - (Unicode) I have  
\> collected is from [sanskritdocuments.org](http://sanskritdocuments.org).  
\>  
\> As I'm commenting on the evolution of the language, I need to confirm,  
\> whether particular literature belong to a particular period. I understand  
\> that most of these works were composed over a span of time - from a few  
\> decades to even a few centuries.Below in the table are the eras when I  
\> considered these works were composed for my study. I request you to tell me  
\> if any of these works have faced a substantial change over the ages after  
\> their composition or do they still stay almost true to the original? If  
\> there have been any major changes I request you to provide me with a some  
\> further information about it so that I can adjust my study accordingly.  
\>  
\>  
\> Literature Time  
\> 1. Rig Veda 2000 BC-500 BC  
\> 2. Ramayana 200 BC – 200 AD  
\> 3. Mahabharata 200 BC – 200 AD  
\> 4. Raghuvamsham 300 AD – 700 AD  
\> 5. Meghadutam 300 AD – 700 AD  
\> 6. Kumarasambhavam 300 AD – 700 AD  
\> 7. Gita Govinda 1200 AD – 1300 AD  
\> 8. Padyavali 1500 AD – 1600 AD  
\>  
\>  
\> Thank you for taking your valuable time for helping me out.  
\>  
\> Hope to hear from you soon.  
\>  
\> Yours sincerely,  
\>  
\> --  
\> Deshmukh Aniket  
\> Final Year Undergraduate Student  
\> Department of Electrical Engineering  
\> IIT Hyderabad  
\> Web: <https://sites.google.com/a/iith.ac.in/aniket/>  
\> Phone no: [+91-9502580449](tel:+91%2095025%2080449)  
\>  
\> --  
\> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
\> to subscribe go to the link below and put a request  
\> <https://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat/subscribe>  
\> To unsubscribe from this group, send email to  
\> [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]()  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\> Email secured by Check Point  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\>  
  
--  
Dr. P. Ramanujan  
AD-IHLC,  
C-DAC, Bangalore (KP)  
[ra...@cdac.in]()  
080-25246350, 66116444 (Off.-Dir.)  
  
  
  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
  
This e-mail is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may  
contain confidential and privileged information. If you are not the  
intended recipient, please contact the sender by reply e-mail and destroy  
all copies and the original message. Any unauthorized review, use,  
disclosure, dissemination, forwarding, printing or copying of this email  
is strictly prohibited and appropriate legal action will be taken.  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
  

