+++
title = "009 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-04-07, 12:09:15 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/8m46Z_Um8VI)]]



Namaste Vishal Jaiswal

1. The foundational and perspective errors in capturing the essence of 'Vedanga Vyakarana Sampradaya' drives such questions.

 After going through the detail below, please let the Group know How you want to pursue the 'Ashtaadhyaayi studies' beyond a ' curios question'.

2. To set right the approach in 'Wording of Question / Seeking' , the backdrop of 'Current Sanskrit Studies' needs to move from the Oriental approach of 'Historicity - Anthropology- History Centricity' to the Science studies and advanced areas in 'Cognition- Consciousness Studies - Cosmology'.

 These are interconnected disciplines which address 'Language as an expression of Inner Consciousness' and a 'Social Dynamic reality' .

Ashtaadhyaayi is a rule book and 'Language Science anchored to Dynamics of Consciousness ( Shabda -Brahma Vijnana ; Vak-Yoga for Veda -Darshana).

This is told upfront loud and clear through the story of 'Maheswara Sutras'. The purpose of exploring ' Maheswara Sutra based disciplines is 'uplifting the genre of Siddhas in the order of Sanaka and the like, the practicing Yogi's. The backdrop of social Sanskrit conversation to learn spoken Sanskrit as a literary model or foreign language to the ' inner conscience of the speaker' does not fit in to this frame work.
The Western and oriental studies of Sanskrit has provided excellent documentation on how Bharath has used 'Samskrutham' in ' Sahitya - Sangeetha - kalaa - Shaastra - Yoga - Vidyasa' ( = literature- Religion- Yoga- Spiritual and Philosophical disciplines) over
millennia.



There are many hidden dangerous hypothesis in the Sanskrit word transalation of ' Deva = God and specific God by preferred choices of
inclusions and exclusions'.

In this specific case, the translation of ' Nataraja' is to be understood clearly. Making a distorted translation of ' Nataraja - Nrutta' (yielding 'Maheswara Sutras') as a physical dance event, of some God dancing on a dance floor somewhere in the sky or Himalayas; and then making that ' some God' as equivalent to '(Dravidian) Shiva of specific Aagama and religion practice in a preferred land ' and taking a sculpted evidence ( Mahabalipuram) and popular stories ( of Vyghrapada) to construct the 'Sanskrit Language history' .... These present multiple layers of deviations in oriental and western narrative with respect to the stand of tradition.

3. The consolidated position of tradition on specificity of 'Why Study Ashtaadhyaayi' and ' How study Ashtaadhyaayi', in my limits of understanding is placed below.

 This covers both of your interest areas as \< practical applications strictly related to ( laukika) language acquisition as well as fluency with respect to Sanskrit. And , \< technical, scientific, religious and philosophical domains/treatises, my sole interest is yoga and sankhya darshanas.\>. The ground -reality check fact stands that the Western and Oriental Sanskrit institutions are not delivering the unified model of 'Ashtaadhyaayi studies', which was the hall mark of ' Guru-Kul Vidyaabhyaasa where 'Veda -Yoga -Samskrutham' was taught together with practicals'. 

***What is Ashtaadhyaayi ?*******

1. Ashtaadhyayi is a UNIFIED GRAMMAR to Achieve Two Goals- Satya Darshana and Satya Vachana.



 To achieve this goal, the Pre-Paninian 'VEDANGA VYAKARNA SAMPRADAYA' was reconstructed by Panini as unified guidance ( Shabda -Anu- Shaasana).

 The 'Chandas' part addresses Visioning and Yajna related application -Utility of 'Vedas'.

 The 'Bhashaa' part addresses the Living Social Practice of Saying Truth, Speaking Truth in a Cultured way.

 The Total pursuit and practice of TRUTH is provided in a unified book with TWO Stratas: 'Bhashaa' and 'Chandas'.

 Here 'Sutra' Binds and Bonds the ' Veda and Loka' ∷ Spiritual and Social. Adhyaatma and Adhi-loka, Adhi-praja.



 Ashtaadhyayi to SEE Truth is Vyakarana as Yoga for 'Veda / Shabda -Brahma -Darshana / SATYA DARSHANA').

 Ashtaadhyayi to SAY Truth is Vyakarana as Yoga for ' Satya - Mantra / SATYA VACHANA').

 There is no island- isolation between language rules of 'VEDA' and 'DEVA'. Totally it is ' BRAHMII - BHARATEE- BHASHAA - SARASVATI'.

 'Bhashaa' is poorly and badly translated to position it in the company of 'Classical Religion Languages - Social Languages - Spoken languages of Historical

 Societies>. The short translations addressing 'Ashtaadhyayi' as a book of language rules for Buddhist Sanskrit, Hybrid Sanskrit, Panini Sanskrit are short

 Presentations of what Ashtaadhyaayi stands for in tradition as 'Vedanga Vyakarana for Yajna- Mantra Yoga-Viniyoga, a Vyakarana Darshana- Shaastra'.

 Same is the case with 'Chandas ' - Badly translated as 'Vedic Sanskrit' using the PIE modeling and 'Religion World View'.



 The error stems from the ' hypothesis' of equating 'Deva' (part of ' Deva-Bhashaa') to 'Abrahamic God'.

 Language of God as understood in Religions anchored to 'SCRIPTURES' is a TEXT SCRIPT PRIMARY APPROACH, which a priori demands a Human agency to SCRIPT, a CONVENTION of SCRIPTING, a HUAMN CONTEXT DOCUMENT. This Academic model does not even suit the frame work of 'Logos' approach to Cosmology in the Abrahamic Religion frame work.

 Language of DEVA / DEVATAA - as understood in Sanatana Dharma Bharateeya Sampradaya / Hinduism as a Religion is anchored to 'VEDAS AS VISIONED = DARSHANA/ HEARD' ; It is an outcome of YOGA practice, where it is ' SHABDA - PRIMARY APPROACH' which a priori demands a YOGI - a Human agency to practice YOGA and ' VISION- LISTEN : SEE and SAY the TRUTH' for rest of the Humanity. This is Yoga approach to learn Samskrutham, in other words ' Yoga-Samskrutham'; Samskrutham as 'Vak-Yoga'.

***Wh******y study*** ***Ashtaadhyaayi ?*** ****

To learn how to use ' Refined Cultured Expression' for the Goals of Good living, here and now; Learn use of Language ( Bhashaa - Yoga- Viniyoga) for Peaceful Togetherness for Productivity and Prosperity'. (Traditionally called as Dharma -Samruddhi , Purushaartha).



***How tradition*** ***studied and maintained*** ***the study of*** ***Ashtaadhyaayi******? How study Ashtaadhyaayi*** ***?******* ****

The traditional schools of Ashtaadhyayi study is called ' Muni-Traya Sampradaya'. Muni is a technical word for Yogi's and Siddhas. ( Gita 5-27: This chapter is called Karma -Sannyasa Yoga): Munir moksha( yoga)-parayanah). In other words, Samskrutham was studied as 'Yoga' for Yoga- Goals.

The Full text approach (Sutra -Bhashaya Paddhati) is preserved in Kaashikaa approach. The Final form derivation approach through application of rules ( Sutra- Niyama - Roopa- Nishpatti -Prakriyaa ) is Bhattoji's method. These are different teaching methods for the same goal.

The western and oriental academia has completely discarded the traditional norm of unified approach presented in Ashtaadhyaayi.

Restoration of this unified method is the 'Vak-Yoga /Yoga way of Studying Samskrutham', the 'Vedanga Vyakarana Paddhati' recommended for 'Ashtaadhyaayi'.

***How Spoken Language from*** ***Ashtaadhyaayi ?*************

For the goal of \<SAYING TRUTH, in a REFINED CULTURED WAY>, Study the rules of Bhashaa and follow Mahakavi prayoga. The spoken language when it should be ' TRUE' beyond ' Simple Chit-Chat Conversation' needs exactitude and effort.



***How Yoga from*** ***Ashtaadhyaayi ?*** ****

For the goal of Yoga, \<SEEING TRUTH, in the NATURE AS IT IS\>, Practice the rules of Shabda- Anushaasana in Ashtaadhyayi and follow ' Yoga- Anushaasanam' Mantra Yoga guidance. The Yoga use of language is set by the expression of Bhavabhuti ∷ and ' Make the Wishful blessings to become a Reality, 'beyond ' Simple blessing' needs Personal Practice for ' Siddhi' to ' CREATE WORLD FROM WORD'. (Veda -shabdebhyah vishwam nirmame, tam Maheswaram Vande - is what Sayanaacharya wrote in the invocation of Veda -Bhashya.

***Who is in need of****** Yoga from*** ***Ashtaadhyaayi ?******* ****

Having said all the above, the question comes : Where is the audience from 'Ashtaadhyaayee based 'Yoga- Samskrutham' ?

 IF Academia intends to keep its standards of 'Sanskrit Language Excellence Standards', The 'BHASHAA-YOGA' part of Ashtaadhyaayee needs to be restored in teaching and research to augment ' fluent speaking'.

 IF YOGA teams intends to keep its progress in Yoga - Meditation - Philosophy goals, Then 'CHANDAS-YOGA' part of Ashtaadhyaayee needs to
be restored in Yoga -teaching and research to explore ' Consciousness'.

 Are we ready to take up the challenge ? To get back to 'Ashtaadhyayee' studies 'as it was' from ' as it is' ??



***I am open to correction and updating*** ***on this understanding******.*******



--



