+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2011-03-26, 15:43:03 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/Sri5fCo3BOM)]]



A friend of mine has send me this question. I shall be grateful for guidance from bvparishat scholars. Please feel free to send your responses also directly to Shri Ashutosh Gupta ji.

  

dhanyavaadaah.

  

kalyanaraman

  

---------- Forwarded message ----------  
From: **Ashutosh Gupta** \<[ashutosh...@gmail.com]()\>  
Date: Wed, Mar 23, 2011 at 7:34 PM  
Subject: Questions from Upanishads  
To: "Dr. S. Kalyanaraman" \<[kaly...@gmail.com]()\>  
  
  
Dear Kalyanramana ji,  
Namaste.  
  
As you know, we have a weekly study group on Indian Philosophy.  
Here is a question that came up during last week's discussion:  
  
According to Hinduism, when does soul enter body??  
  
Some background:  
The essential underlying question is the ongoing debate on 'Abortion'.  
Does abortion mean taking away life??  
  
We understand that the end of life is defined as the time, when soul leaves the body.  
Now the immediate natural question is that, when does 'life' begin?  
  
There are two distinct answers we are getting:  
One from Shruti & another from Smruti.  
  
Here is one from Smruti:  
Srimad Bhagwatam Canto 3 Ch 31 Verse1 ([see here](http://vedabase.net/sb/3/31/1/en1))  
This seems to suggest that the soul is entering through semen... in other words, millions of souls are entering, and only one makes it...  
  
Here is one from Shruti:  
One line of argument was that during first 4-8 weeks of conception soul is not there.  
There is no reference for the second one, and wondering if you can shed some more light on this one.  
(On some online forums, people have suggested that this argument comes from Upanishads.)  
  
(If we do find a reference from Upanishads, than sure that will be THE accepted argument??)  
  
Any comments would be much appreciated.  
  
Best regards,  
Ashutosh.  

  

