+++
title = "001 VKG"

+++
[[VKG	2010-07-21, 05:57:23 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/zA5ehBG8wyU)]]



Pranaam  
  
This is another important aspect. Though the term says Vedic Astrology  
and current day predictions are centred around Nine Planets; it still  
remains a puzzle, where these references (Direct/ Indirect) are  
contained in the Vedic Texts.  
  
Jyotishya is the term derived from the word Jyotish connoting a Star  
(Nakshatra). Chayana Prakarana of Yajurveda refers these stars as the  
effulgency of great souls, who did great penance and extra ordinary  
deeds.  
  
सुकृतां वा एतानि ज्योतींषि, यन्नक्षत्राणि। (तै.संहिता 5 - 4 -1)  
  
Nakshatra Ishti and Innumerable references in respect,to the  
Nakshatras are available. But, they largely point towards the Lunar  
Transition (Position/ Angle/ Inclination of Chandra in the back drop  
of Nakshatras; as seen from this planet).  
  
Sourcing from the references of stories containing in the Mantras/  
Brahmanas - the Puraanas provided the rich repertoire of Nava Graha  
stories. (Kashi Khanda of Skaanda Puraana) provides ample scope of the  
evolution/ assuming charge of Nine planets) among hundreds of other  
references.  
  
Even the Mantras, that are used in current day Nava Graha Japa/ Homa/  
Puja Practices are not mentioned in any of the Vedic Texts,  
Commentaries or other Vedangas. Bodhayana Gruhya Sutra/ Parisishta  
provides only reference to Nava Graha Aaradhana, which has semblance  
to current day practices. (However, this is also found to be tweaked/  
altered to suit the convenience/ whims/ fancies??? in current day  
practices)  
  
The word Graha is found aplenty in Veda, in a different context.  
(Graha is the vessel dedicated to a particular deity to store the  
mystics/ mythical Soma Rasa, before offering the Aahuti).  
  
Though, these observations (of years of seach) may seem to be  
scathing; we are at pains to find out the sources. Ofcourse, this is  
not to dissuade anybody from doing Graha Puja. Any new reference is  
most welcome.  
  
If this is not based on Veda, can Graha Puja yield desired results??  
is the next question>\>  
Rational Interpretation of the Cause and Effect; by beleivers can be  
explained as under: Sarva Antaryaami Paramaatma is Ananta Naama,  
Ananta Veerya, Ananta Guna can be worshipped/ thought of. This  
worship/ Smarana would be effective to give needed results, based on  
the sincerity of the performer.  
अनन्त नाम्ना परिशोभितो यः अनन्त रूपेण विराजितश्च।  
अनन्त वीर्यादि गुणैः प्रपूर्णः तं सच्चिदानन्द विभुं व्रजामः।। (-  
श्रीगणपति सच्चिदानन्द स्वामिनः)  
  
Regards  
Vamshi Krishna Ghanapathi  
Mysore  
  
  
  
  
  
On Jul 20, 9:55pm, SUDHAKARA SHERMAA \<[sudhakarasher...@gmail.com]()\>  
wrote:  



