+++
title = "002 VKG"

+++
[[VKG	2011-01-11, 14:45:23 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/SWhqB4OicpI)]]



Pranaam  
  
It is amusing, that the issue of Paraavartana or Parivartana is quoted  
conversion.  
  
It is virutally and practically impossible for any one to convert or  
reconvert. None of the original texts have a concept of Conversion.  
Because, they do not take cognizance of any other lateral faith, as  
all of them are very recent (compared to the antiquity of the Faith.)  
  
Secondly, the term Hindu is also unIndian, I mean does not have  
sanction of our Vedic Culture. Should you like to be called by  
someone, by a nickname, as he likes?? (Persians started this word  
Hindu). It is similar to English people calling, Chennai as Madras,  
Mumbai as Bombay.  
  
And finally our identity, is Bharateeya. And our Clans are Aarya. We  
should be unequivocal in vehemently oppose any other nomenclature.  
(Or, if we are followers of Adwaita, any name/ identity or lack of it  
should be fine, for its impermanence).  
  
Only possibility for conversion is Praaschitta, for a fault of  
Adharma. deliberate or otherwise.  
  
Rest of the inferences border on whimsical interpretation, I believe.  
  
Regards to one and all.  
VKG  
  
On Jan 10, 9:10am, subrahmanyam korada \<[korad...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  
\> namo vidvadbhyah  
\>  
\> \*TaittirIyAra.nyaka\* (\*SvAdhyAyabrAhma.nam)\* prescribes ' \*kU.smA.n.dahoma\*' as  
\> \*PrAyas'citta\* for any kind of '\*[do.sa](http://do.sa)\*' or '\*pApa'\* --  
\>  
\> ' \*kU.smA.n.dairjuhuyAt yo'pUta iva manyeta yathA steno yathA  
\> [bhrU.nahaivame.sa](http://bhrU.nahaivame.sa) bhavati' .  
\> \*  
\> dhanyo'smi  
\>  
\> 2011/1/2 S. Kalyanaraman \<[kalya...@gmail.com]()\>  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\> \> Hindu Katham Bhuyate  
\>  
\> \><http://www.scribd.com/doc/29078638/Hindu-Katham-Bhuyate>\<<http://www.google.com/url?sa=D&q=http://www.scribd.com/doc/29078638/H..>.>  

\>  
\> \> Hindu Katham Bhuyate  
\>  
\> \> How to Become a Hindu  
\>  
\> \> \*Vratyastoma\*  
\>  
\> \> One view is that vratya were people of North East Bharat responsible for  
\> \> Upanishadic thought and the origin of Bauddham. Four kinds of vratya  
\> \> institutions are prescribed for homecoming (paraavartan of Hindus who have  
\> \> strayed away from the faith and those who did not practice the Hindu  
\> \> faith):  
\>  
\> \> uddaalaka penance, a caandraayaNa, ashvamedha or vratyastoma.(Nagendranath  
\> \> Ghose, Indo-Aryan Literature and Cultural origins, 1934)  
\>  
\> \> Kashatriya like Shivaji were vratya who had to undergo upanayana prior to  
\> \> coronation.  
\>  
\> \> Most of the people of ancient India before the advent of Christianity or  
\> \> Islam were Hindus. Many ancestors of present-day muslims and christians in  
\> \> India were Hindu. It is likely that most of the present-day people in India  
\> \> professing religions such as Christianity or Islam can consider themselves  
\> \> to be descendants of Hindu pitr-s.  
\>  
\> \> Dr. S. Radhakrishnan, eminent philosopher and former president of India,  

\> \> confirmed Swami Vivekananda's views in his well-known book, \*The Hindu  
\> \> View of Life\* (p. 28-29): "In a sense, Hinduism may be regarded as the  

\> \> first example in the world of a missionary religion. Only its missionary  
\> \> spirit is different from that associated with the proselytizing creeds. It  
\> \> did not regard it as its mission to convert humanity to any one opinion. For  
\> \> what counts is conduct and not belief. Worshipers of different Gods and  
\> \> followers of different rites were taken into the Hindu fold. The ancient  

\> \> practice of\*vratyastoma,\* described fully in the \*Tandya Brahmana,\* shows  

\> \> that not only individuals but whole tribes were absorbed into Hinduism. Many  

\> \> modern sects accept outsiders. \*Devala Smriti\* lays down rules for the  

\> \> simple purification of people forcibly converted to other faiths, or of  
\> \> womenfolk defiled and confined for years, and even of people who, for  
\> \> worldly advantage, embrace other faiths."...There are many organizations  
\> \> in India active in reconversion, some motivated by fears of non-Hindu  
\> \> dominance in regions once all Hindu. The Masurashrama in Mumbai specializes  

\> \> in reconversions through the \*shuddhi shraddha\*, purification ceremony,  

\> \> bringing dozens of converts back into the Sanatana Dharma each month.  
\> \> Masurashrama founder, Dharma Bhaskar Masurkar Maharaj, set a strong  
\> \> precedent in 1928 when he organized the purification rite for 1,150 devotees  
\> \> in Goa who had previously converted to Christianity. About the same time,  
\> \> Swami Agamanandaji of the Ramakrishna Mission in Kerala reconverted hundreds  
\> \> to Hinduism, as did Narayana Guru. More recently, two South Indian ashramas  
\> \> -- Madurai Aadheenam and Kundrakuddi Aadheenam -- have brought thousands of  
\> \> Indians back into Hinduism in mass conversion rites. Since the early 1960s,  
\> \> the Vishva Hindu Parishad has reportedly reconverted a half-million  

\> \> individuals through \*shuddhi\* ceremonies all over India. The  



