+++
title = "003 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-07-20, 17:04:35 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/_Cmbjz1efCQ)]]



Namaste



On the topic of **\< samaavartana / Snaataka / Vivaha>** , A related topic to explore is **‘ Devagun’** practice in Kashmiri Brahminical marriage systems. Thanks to both of you for providing the relevant text passage for clarifying the position.



I like to share a recent experience , where in I had a practical
situation to resolve the format of ‘Devagun’. This was at the request of the parents seeking ‘ traditional system of Brahminical marriage’.
Based on the community practices, I advised ‘Devagun’ to be performed at Parents house before marriage; and keep the marriage samskaras later.



This was an opportunity for me to explore the ‘ marriage practices’ across several brahmana communities at Bharath and outside. The quest
was to figure out the ‘ Samskara paddhati sequence and format of Snaataka vrata completion- before the ‘Marriage –event’.



The study led to interesting information on the practice diversity of different brahmana communities on this topic.



The texts suggest that ‘Snaataka vrata completion /Samaavartana/ a similar samskara’ is to be made to the bride/ groom at the parents house on completion of studies and return from ‘ guru-kul’. Marriage or otherwise choice ( for extended study, going to another gurukul, remain unmarried, choose to jump ashrama to sannyasa) is a later option. This is technicality of the ‘ devagun’ program, celebrating the return of the ‘boy/girl’ from gurukul, as a ‘ graduate’ back to parents house/ society at large.



Next question was : How much time gap should be there between ‘ Devgun/ snaataka vrata /samaavartana’ and ‘marriage’ ? Technically the books kept this open ended and left to the choice of the ‘ educated boy /girl’ to choose their next ‘ashrama-status and profession’. Practically, the parents ( prefer to ) kept the time gap at a minimum of 30 minutes to 3 months , depending upon the context of education- employment – muhurta for marriage dates - visa and other external issues and the like. 



South Indian model of ‘ Kaashi yaatra / interception / Vara-poojaa’ before ‘ kanyaa-daana’ request from the ‘kanyaa-pitru / bandhus’ show that the (i) the graduated student (Snaataka) has taken a ‘ technically ( right - ? / deliberated) decision to go out again and pursue higher studies’ ( leading to Moksha- ? ); but the society recommends to pursue higher studies after taking on to ‘Gruhastha Ashrama’ . The argument is two fold: (i) The companion will help studies as ‘ ekaH tapo- Dvih Adhyaayi’ (ii) The life companion and Ashrama Dharma will help to clear the rest of the Rinas ( Pitru and Rushi) along with ‘ Vidyaa –rina’.



Hidden agendas being, keep community prosperous and rich with ‘ happy families and vamsha – gotra vruddhi’ .

Did not Manu say –‘ Gruhastha is the support and anchor to ensure rest of the three Ashrama Dharma’s go on well’ ?



May be the community practices several of these dictums without understanding the design of ‘Dharma Shaastra’ for ‘ Purushaartha Siddhi’ as a platform for ‘ Paramartha pursuit ’. It is the select few who get the privilege to jump Ashramas and take on faster lane in Yoga practice.



Buddhists called this as the distinction between ‘ hina-yana’ and ‘maha-yana’. Yoga-Sutra called this as ‘ mudu- Madhya –Teevra aasannataa’ of adhikaari. (Yoga-Sutra directions are not just for Samadhi /Kaivalya. They also extend apropos to the ‘Samaaja – Saha –Yoga /Vivaha Yogas’.)



Notice here that I am using ‘ Deshaachaara’ of ‘ specific communities of Brahmanas’, who , for all practical reasons are ‘Brahmana Community members’. And that means the strictest conditions of ‘dvija –samskaras /Ashrama dharmas’ are not implementable.



 What happens in the practice is the ‘ flow of event takes place as a routine- ritual. The conducting acharya may take some time to explain the importance of the same; but the explanation sinks to the background in the loud noise of other celebrations ! The explanation ultimately ends up as a ‘ Acharya Satisfaction’ and ‘ Parent Satisfaction’ of an event conducted following a rule book.





As this is a ‘Dharma Shaastra’ practice issue, divergent opinions and practices may be justified by drawing quotes from available three hundred Dharma Shaastras to justify / recommend a practice.



Regards

BVK Sastry



--  

You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  

To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().



