+++
title = "024 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-06-29, 13:56:48 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/kqwFcVuN0wc)]]



Namaste



**Why is this thread overlooking the clear difference between the terms and dangerous implications of such deliberations ? **



A) **Aamnaya –peetha** = Peetha for ‘ aamnaaya’ ; Aamnaaya means ‘ VEDAS’ ( and NOT limited to Adviata Vedanta). There will be NO ( Advaita/ or any flavor of Vyasa Siddhanta) if VEDA is not patronized.



B) **‘ matha’** = A residential live-learn facility for students and acharyas . ‘ Matha’ is NOT a monastery or seminary or ‘Mad-rasa’.

 Matha is integrally connected with ‘ patronizing Aamnaaya’= Vedas. Failure to patronize ‘ aamnaaya’ makes ‘ matha’ loose its social and sacred status.



*The connected question is*: How is one resolving the compound ‘**माठापत्यं** ‘ - Why is this pointed to mean मठाधिपति related position ? The ‘ lifestyle of maathaapatya’ is an executive, paid –supported position of running and taking care of ‘ students- learners’ ( like a warden) in an educational institution. This model is NOT suited for the ‘practicing yogi / parivraajaka’. The traditional meaning of ‘maTha’ as ‘ Chaatraadi- nilaya’ means : The facility is supportive of living for students- learners –instructors and other seekers ( - as Guest house and other rooms) facilities for intensives. The modern term close to this concept would be ‘forest academies’. It may also mean the ‘First – house of learning ( aadi = first, beginning learners).



 From where did one draw and load the meaning – responsibility of the ‘ executive position / head of institution’ (अधिपति ) concept and force the ‘renunciate ( = parivraajaka / yatyaashrami) , who supposedly took vows to leave everything – including personal name, family, possession, to seek the ultimate Supreme Divine and goal of human birth’?



 This aspect of ‘using the technicality of a term- name, designation of position and institutionalization concept’ articulated as मठाधिपति ’ in ‘Samskruth as ‘as a social service position to outreach ‘Sanaatana Dharma’ ? Why make forced connections of अधिपति / मठाधिपति with
the intention of Acharya Shankaras establishment of आम्नाय पीठ āmnāya pīṭha? This needs a serious review in a perspective visualization of the social role of ‘ saffron wearing head of a religion institution’ to live by the standards of ‘ aamnaaya’ .



‘**माठापत्यं** ‘ should not end up as a ‘ hereditary / blood relations / inheritance to children ( = apatya related ) continuity as a lineage position holders by ‘ birth right’ in a Religion-Education facility.
Neither the place should end up as a ‘ place to groom the children of मठाधिपति !



C) This clarity on title / name opens up inconvenient questions on what should be the role play of ‘ Achaarya Shankara established Four ‘ Aamnaaya- peethas / Acharya Poorna prajna established Ashta- Matha’ organizational models, What is the focus of institutions that run with the title ‘ Sri Ramakrishna Matha’ ?



 **Where is ‘ aamnaaya’- the real soul of ‘Matha’ in several
current models of ‘matha/ ashrama’ institutions ? **



Indeed, Samskrutham is a tricky language !



Regards

BVK Sastry





**From:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() \[mailto:[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\] **On Behalf Of** Nagaraj Paturi  
**Sent:** Thursday, 28 June, 2018 10:27 AM  
**To:** Bharatiya Vidvat parishad  
**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Re: Earliest evidence for 'maTha' (monastery)



\> Sri Adi Sankaracharya is quoted to have said **"****माठापत्यं मा भूत्"** and the current Sankaracharyas refer to their monasteries as "आम्नायपीठाः". This makes me think that usages like "शङ्करमठः" could be of a later date and perhaps largely colloquial.



**------- pITha and maTha are not the same or similar concepts**.



S'aaradaapITha can be there and but not S'aaradaa-maTha.



S'aaradaapITha and s'ringErImaTha can be part of the same organisational entity.





On Wed, Jun 27, 2018 at 6:47 PM, Sri Raghava Kiran Mukku \<[msrk...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:

Namaste



I am referring to the verse quoted by Vidvan Sri Shankara. I may be diverging, and pardon me for that, but Sri Adi Sankaracharya is quoted to have said "माठापत्यं मा भूत्" and the current Sankaracharyas refer to their monasteries as "आम्नायपीठाः". This makes me think that usages like "शङ्करमठः" could be of a later date and perhaps largely colloquial.



Dhanyo'smi

Raghava

--  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  

To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().

  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

  
  



--

Nagaraj Paturi



Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA.





BoS, MIT School of Vedic Sciences, Pune, Maharashtra



BoS, Chinmaya Vishwavidyapeeth, Veliyanad, Kerala



Former Senior Professor of Cultural Studies



FLAME School of Communication and FLAME School ofLiberal Education,



(Pune, Maharashtra,INDIA)







--  

You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  

To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().



