+++
title = "006 Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma"

+++
[[Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma	2010-11-03, 06:20:30 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/bnoL5XjNnR8)]]



Dear Sri Pavamana,

  
  
\>can anybody highlight why we give so much prominence to Saligrama shila?  
(apart from saying it is just a sacred traditionally).  
  

The answer provided here is only a pointer. This Shila is available only in the sacred river  
GanDaki of Nepal.(Why? can it be produced elsewhere- such a question does arise; even  
if done it will lack something, being a human intervention.) Receiving it from that river with proper attitude,  
that is shraddha and bhakti makes a lot of difference; even if it be an attempt to collect a sample for  
"test".  
  
This Shila, once received/taken from the river ought to have Tulasi touch ( Indian Holy Basil)  
always. The shila has to be washed daily as part of the worship and the water of first wash  
should be discarded.(Some one gave an explanation that unassimilable calcium content formed  
on the surface is to be removed, this way.) The second wash is taken as nirmalya tirtha and the third wash is abhisheka  
tirtha.  
  
"सालिग्रामे यथा विष्णु: " says Acharya Shankara in the Sutra Bhashya.  
How to check this out? If it is just a superimposition, why not have it  
in any other stone? Who is to decide?  
  
धन्यो"स्मि  
  

2010/11/2 Pavamana HV \<[pava...@gmail.com]()\>



  
  
  
--  
Aangirasa/Dr.S.Ramakrishna Sharma. M.A.,Ph.D.(Eng.Lit.),Ph.D.(Sanskrit.).  

