+++
title = "061 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-04-07, 16:23:03 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/frZLJGqevfk)]]



Namaste



On the search for \< Writing > in Historical early period of India ( and in the focus of Samskruth) : Are we looking at the right place for evidence ? OR working on just the belief and ‘ hypothesis’ that there was a co-existence of high level of language analytics in voice – speech –grammar part along side crudeness of writing system ( even though Painting, and other performing fine arts – Chitra kalaa, naatya ) had high level of achievement ? Surely one needs more research or right perspective to look for the required things !



Where should one be looking for primary evidence on ‘Writing a document for a spoken language, an instruction, a land record, a written evidence ( Saakhsi) in a disputed Vyavahara ? And where one
should look for secondary evidence ?



***Primary evidence***: Artha Shaastra – where royal administration uses ‘ written orders to confirm verbal communications, the land grants, the judicial disputes resolution where ‘ saakhsi’ as written evidence is present.



 There seems to be enough evidence in professions which speak about the ‘ lekhaka’ ( scribe), Shilpakara ( Artisan sculptor making royal inscriptions), Daana-patra ( Royal grants of land and gifts). And the information needs to be collated from allied disciplines. Chaanakya , Sukra neeti, Yaajnavalkya smriti .. speak of written evidence in vyavahara kaanda. 



***Secondary evidence***: Language grammar ( Ashtaadhyaayi sutra and Gana- Paathas ??? ) which deals with word formation, sentence alignments , were one would find a term ‘ in the meaning of writing’.
Example: Root ‘ likh’.



Regards

BVK Sastry





**From:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() \[mailto:[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\] **On Behalf Of** Dipak Bhattacharya  
**Sent:** Saturday, 31 March, 2018 9:31 AM  
**To:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Is 'halanta' also called 'virāma'?



"Can we find अष्टाध्यायी-सूत्राणि detailingthese concepts both in speech and writing"

There is nothing about writing in the Ashtadhyayi.

On Sat, Mar 31, 2018 at 9:05 AM, S. L. Abhyankar \<[sl.abh...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:

भाषासु शब्दविज्ञानम् इत्यस्मिन् विषये विचारयति मम मनसि आगतौ द्वौ विचारौ diphthongs तथा conjoint consonants. गूगलन्वेषणे प्राप्यते

· Diphthong =>

a sound formed by the combination of two vowels in a single syllable, in which the sound begins as one vowel and moves towards another (as in*coin*,*loud*, and*side*).

o a digraph representing the sound of a diphthong or single vowel (as in*feat*).

o a compound vowel character; a ligature (such as*æ*)

-   The automatically assumed inherent vowel in a consonant may be
    nullified by adding a vowel-suppression marker or by
    constructing***conjoint consonants***where a consonant gives up
    the inherent vowel by ligaturing to another consonant

Can we find अष्टाध्यायी-सूत्राणि detailingthese concepts both in speech and writing. Actually the speech aspect is very much clear in allसूत्र-s relating to अच्-सन्धयः, हल्-सन्धयः and विसर्ग-सन्धयः. What remains to be explored is the writing aspect.

--  


