+++
title = "001 Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma"

+++
[[Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma	2010-07-17, 05:57:45 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/lBdT8dtF428)]]



**नम: परमऋषिभ्यो नम: परमऋषिभ्य: विद्वद्भ्यश्च**  
As known to those who perform SandhyAvandanam,  
यमाय धर्मराजाय मृत्यवे शान्तकाय च ..... this verse only provides  
the names which glorify the Dik-Pala of the South.  
**In the Kaathaka Upanishat** he is depicted as Brahma Vidya Acharya  
of Nachiketa and yet no details of form, weapons, color, vehicle are  
mentioned there. Perhaps the commentaries and foot notes may  
provide these details.  
However, the color is Neela(neelaaya paramEshtine); Vrkodaraya,  
CitrAya also give some clue regarding the form.  
**Coming to Temple Tantra rituals,** at the bottom of the FLAG POST, Dhvhaja-Stambha,  
the Idol of Yamadharmaraja can be found in full detail, as it is cast  
according to the prescriptions of Agama-Dhyana-Shloka.  
Further, at different occasions as described in the episodes of the  
PurANas and ItihAsas he has different weapons and attires. He is the  
presiding Deity of Danda, Pasha and also Aanjaleeka-Astra(given to Arjuna).  
**Here is an informative quotation from**: <http://www.veda.harekrsna.cz/encyclopedia/dying.htm>  
**from Hindu Dictionary by Manurishi Foundation**

Yama - Restrainer. Pluto, etc. In the Vedas Yama is god of the dead, with whom the spirits of the departed dwell. He was the son of Vivasvat (the Sun) and had a twin-sister named Yami or Yamuna. These are by some looked upon as the first human pair, the originators of the race; and there is a remarkable hymn, in the form of a dialogue, in which the female urges their cohabitation for the purpose of perpetuating the species. Another hymn says that Yama "was the first of men that died, and the first that departed to the (celestial) world." It was Yama who found the way to the home which cannot be taken away. "Those who are now born follow) by their own paths to the place where our ancient fathers have departed." "But," says Muir, "Yama is nowhere represented in the Rigveda as having anything to do with the punishment of the wicked." So far as is yet known, "the hymn of that Veda contain no prominent mention of any such penal retribution... Yama is still to some extent an object of terror. He is represented as having two insatiable dogs \[Rigveda 10.14.10-12\] with four eyes and wide nostrils, which guard the road to his abode, and which the departed are advised to hurry past with all possible speed. These dogs are said to wander about among men as his messengers, no doubt for the purpose of summoning them to their master, who is in another place identified with death, and is described as sending a bird as the herald of doom." In the epic poems Yama is the son of the Sun by Sanjna (conscience) and brother of Vaivasvata (Manu). He was the father of Yudhishthira. He is the god of departed spirits and judge of the dead. A soul when it quits its mortal form goes to his abode in the lower regions; there the recorder, Citragupta, reads out his account from the great register called Agrasandhani, and a just sentence follows, when the soul either ascends to the abodes of the Pitris (Manes), or is sent to one of the twenty-one hells according to its guilt, or it is born again on earth in another form. Yama is regent of the south quarter, and as such is called Dakshinashapati. He is represented as having a green color and clothed with red. He rides upon a buffalo, and is armed with a ponderous mace and a noose to secure his victims. In the Puranas a legend is told of Yama having lifted his foot to kick Chaya, the handmaid of his father. She cursed him to have his leg affected with sores and worms, but his father gave him a cock which picked off the worms and cured the discharge. Through this incident he is called Shirnapada, "Shrivelled foot." Yama had several wives, as Hemamala, Sushila, and Vijaya. He dwells in the lower world, in his city Yamapura. There, in his palace called Kalichi, he sits upon his throne of judgment, Vicharabhu. He is assisted by his recorder and councillor, Citragupta, and waited upon by his two chief attendants and custodians, Canda or Mahacanda, and Kalapurusha. His messengers, Yamadutas, bring in the souls of the dead, and the door of his judgment-hall is kept by his porter, Vaidhyata. Yama has many names descriptive of his office. He is Mrityu, Kala, and Antaka, "death"; Kritanta, "the finisher"; Shamana "the settler"; Dandi or Dandadhara, "the rod-bearer"; Bhimashasana, "of terrible decrees"; Pashi, "the noose-carrier"; Pitripati, "lord of the manes"; Pretaraja, "king of the ghosts"; Shraddhadeva, "god of the exequial offerings"; and especially Dharmaraja, "king of justice." He is Audumbara, from Udumbara, "the fig-tree," and from his parentage he is Vaivasvata. There is a Dharmashastra which bears the name of Yama.

**The details requested are not found compiled for the reason that Yamaraja is not a Major Upasya-Devata** except in the cases: 1)of Kunti who was given suitable mantra of Yama by the Rishi(Durvasa) which must be necessarily accompanied by Dhyana 2) of Savithri(not exactly in upasana)who encountered Yama in an argument regarding sun-rise 3) of Markandeya(not exactly in upasana)who was saved by Lord Siva's intervention. 4) of Nachiketa who was blessed under peculiar/unique circumstances.  
**Prapancha-sara-sara-sangraha of Geervanendrasaraswati** provides the details which are not to be quoted here.  
  
  
  
  

2010/7/16 Veeranarayana Pandurangi \<[veer...@gmail.com]()\>  



> --  

> अथ चेत्त्वमिमं धर्म्यं संग्रामं न करिष्यसि।  
> ततः स्वधर्मं कीर्तिं च हित्वा पापमवाप्स्यसि।।  
> तस्मादुत्तिष्ठ कौन्तेय युद्धाय कृतनिश्चयः।  
> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  

  
  
  
--  
Aangirasa/Dr.S.Ramakrishna Sharma. M.A.,Ph.D.(Eng.Lit.),Ph.D.(Sanskrit.).  

