+++
title = "003 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-01-05, 09:54:26 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/psBdgr2y-nU)]]



Namaste Krishna Kashyap



1. Thanks for taking note of the ‘relevance and trending of debate’ on this post . Probably the subject line should have been \< Hinduism Views on LGBT- Homosexuality \> and NOT \< What is the meaning of these Shlokas by Sushrut? \>.



2. The issues of \< Hinduism Views on LGBT- Homosexuality \> . 



 - in Current society are five intersecting disciplines and Nation specific Constitution –Culture issues: Sociology, Psychology, Medicine, Law , Religion.



 - in Traditional discourse of ‘Shaastra’ , they are ‘ Individual Specific Karma –Phala / Praarabdha - (Praacheena karma balavaan munayo vadanti )’ .



The axioms, premises and end goals of ‘Shaastra of Dharma and Karma’
have very minimal overlap to make a ‘ Culturally meaningful interpretation’. The home tradition can easily accept and live with
the birth of many ‘ a-yonija’ personalities who become great through
‘Yoga- Tapas- Swaadhyaaya- Kriyaa’, the ‘Socio-Cultural Sampradayas can not tolerate the repetition of same at the lower level.



3. Within the current flow of ‘Culturally Constructed Sampradaya nishtataa- baddhata’ , there is a marked imbalance between the theory and practice of four Purushartha Shaastras (= Four Shaastras of
Dharma Artha Kama Moksha). This is the narrative and discourse of
three hundred about Yoga-Samskrutham set on an off course journey.



 The ‘ in house-justification’ popularly used to validate, authenticate and stamp and enforce the distortion / imbalance is ‘ Secular Pseudo Vedanta’ promoted by many ‘ brand gurus’ using ‘colonial missionary translations and constructs’, cutting the root of ‘ Vyasa - Acharya Sampradaya’.



 The ‘secular Pseudo Vedanta’ is weaved on the socio-religion constructed distortions of ‘Yoga- Vedanta discourse tradition in Samskrutham’ to ‘ dress it for its new avatar of ‘ Yoga on mat , Vedanta as cyber chat and Samskruth as social chit-chat language’.
Revival of Samskrutham is not a revival of historic tribal religion language of a migrating community and prayer petition language of a faith-belief community ’. 



 In short, when Yoga and Samskrutham (= Language of Yoga) got corrupted, the allied deliberations of Veda, Vedanta, Ayurveda , Jyotish, Karma-Kanda, Mantra .. everything took their hit and are falling like a pack of cards. Result is ‘looking for ‘ Kama- (Samaaja ) Shaastra issues’ in ‘ Ayurveda which is a (Upa-)Veda –Dharma and Moksha Shaastra. 





Regards

BVK Sastry



  

*Best Regards,*



*Krishna Kashyap*













To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().

To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().

For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

--  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  

To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().

  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

--  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  

To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().



