+++
title = "000 Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma"

+++
[[Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma	2010-03-14, 04:53:44 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/ca-QFY3gxZo)]]



**संस्कृतं** **संस्कृतं** **संस्कृतं** **संस्कृतं** **!**  
**\|\|संस्कृतायै नमो नम:\|\|**

---------- Forwarded message ----------  
From: **Sourav Mukherjee** \<[sour...@gmail.com]()\>  
Date: Sun, Mar 14, 2010 at 12:20 AM  
Subject: \[foundation-for-indian-scientific-h Fwd: \[Sanskrit\] **English words that have origin in Sanskrit**  
To: [foundation-for-india...@googlegroups.com]()  
  
  
  
  

---------- **Forwarded message** ----------  
From: **K.N.RAMESH** \<[knra...@gmail.com]()\>  
Date: 2010/3/13  
Subject: \[Sanskrit\] English words that have origin in Sanskrit  
To:  
  
  

List of English Words derived from Sanskrit via Latin Greek Persian by Gurudev.  
One of my friends said, “Look at the rich technical vocabulary of English. Isn't it amazing that today we have so many new words created in English like Computer, Processor, Monitor, Internet, Hardware, Software etc that it is almost impossible to create words with similar meaning in other languages and so instead we will have to directly import these English words into our languages to keep pace with the rapidly evolving new terms.”  
“Very True.”, I said, “Any language during the time period of its peak usage as a spoken language will have its words imported into other languages that exist during that period. Just like the way Sanskrit words which got imported into Greek, Latin, Persian, etc during the peak usage of Sanskrit. These Sanskrit words have today silently formed a vast majority of the Original English Language!”.  
And then I explained to him the Sanskrit source of various English words and he was quite surprised – not because he didn't knew it all these days, but because he had failed to recognize the obvious phonetic connection that existed between words in his Indian language (which is again derived from Sanskrit) and similar sounding words with similar meaning in English!  
  
Sir William Jones – the English Philologist who for the first time in 1786 suggested in his book “The Sanscrit Language” that Greek and Latin were related to Sanskrit and perhaps even Gothic, Celtic and Persian languages were related to Sanskrit.  
It was this work which later gave birth to the so called Proto-Indo-European theory which instead of looking into Sanskrit being the root language of all Indo-European languages, suggests that all Indo-European languages including Sanskrit came from another so far unheard of language called PIE or Proto-Indo-European language.  
Well, the irony is that till today there is no literature in the world about the so called PIE. There is no inscription found anywhere in the world written in the so called PIE. Nobody knows how the PIE was. Nobody knows who spoke it or in which part of the world was it spoken. No known ancient culture in the world talks about such a language being the root of the language they spoke. Simply put there is NO PROOF about the existence of this language. Just look at its name. It was a name GIVEN to it. A language if spoken will definitely contain words referring to everything that the people who spoke it could identify, yet here is a language which doesn't even have a name referring to itself!  
So then what is the basis of having introduced this language in the language tree in the first place - a language which will remain invisible forever? Might be a guess, Max Muller used to guess a lot like this about the Vedas, which he then retreated later.  
Be it Greek Latin English Hindi Lithuanian – Sanskrit is the mother of all Languages. Even Scholars like Voltaire, Immanuel Kant etc believed that Sanskrit was the root of all Indo-European languages.  
**“I am convinced that everything has come down to us from the banks of the Ganges” said Voltaire. He believed that the “Dynasty of Brahmins taught the rest of the world”.  
“Mankind together with all science must have originated on the roof of the world ie the Himalayas” declared Immanuel Kant.**  
  
**Root Sanskrit Word**  
Median Word in Latin(L) / Greek(G) / Arabic(A)  
Derived English Word  
Gau (meaning Cow) Bous (G) Cow  
Matr (meaning Mother) Mater (L) Mother  
Jan (meaning Generation) Genea (G) Gene  
Aksha (meaning Axis) Axon (G) Axis  
Navagatha (meaning Navigation) Navigationem (L) Navigation  
Sarpa (meaning Snake) Serpentem (L) Serpent  
Naas (means Nose) Nasus (L) Nose  
Anamika (means Anonymous) Anonymos (G) Anonymous  
Naama (means Name) Nomen (L) Name  
Manu (means First Human) ?? Man/Men/Human  
Ashta (meaning Eight) Octo (L) Eight  
Barbara (meaning Foreign) Barbaria (L) Barbarian  
Dhama (meaning House) Domus (L) Domicile  
Danta (meaning Teeth) Dentis (L) Dental  
Dwar (meaning Door) Doru Door  
Dasha (meaning Ten) Deca (G) Deca  
Madhyamam (meaning Medium) Medium (L) Medium  
Kaala (meaning Time) Kalendae (L) Calendar  
Kri (meaning To Do) Creatus (L) Create  
Mishra (meaning Mix) Mixtus (L) Mix  
Ma (meaning Me/My) Me (L) Me  
Pithr (meaning Father) Pater (L) Father  
Bhrathr (meaning Brother) Phrater (G) Brother  
Loka (meaning Place) Locus (L) Locale  
Maha (meaning Great) Magnus (L) Mega  
Malam (meaning Dirt/Bad) Malus (L) Mal as in Malicious, Malnutrition, Malformed etc  
Makshikaa (meaning Bee) Musca (L) (Meaning Fly) Mosquito  
Mrta (meaning Dead) Mortis (L) Murder  
Na (meaning No) Ne No  
Nakta (meaning Night) Nocturnalis (L) Nocturnal  
Paad (meaning Foot) Pedis (L) Ped as in Pedestrial, Pedal etc  
Pancha (meaning Five) Pente (G) Penta, Five  
Parah (meaning Remote) Pera (G) Far  
Patha (meaning Path) Pathes (G) Path  
Raja / Raya (meaning King) Regalis (L) Royal  
Sama (meaning Similar) Similis (L) Similar  
Sapta (meaning Seven) Septum (L) Seven  
Sharkara (meaning Sugar) Succarum Sugar / Sucrose  
Smi (meaning Smile) Smilen (L) Smile  
SthaH (meaning Situated) Stare (L) (meaning To Stand) Stay  
Svaad (meaning Tasty) Suavis (L) Sweet  
Tha (meaning That) Talis (L) That  
Tva (meaning Thee) Dih Thee  
Vachas (meaning Speech) Vocem (L) Voice  
Vahaami (meaning Carry) Vehere (meaning to Carry) (L) Vehicle  
Vama / Vamati (meaning Vomit) Vomere (L) Vomit  
Vastr (meaning Cloth) Vestire (L) Vest  
Yauvana (meaning Youth) Juvenilis (L) Juvenile  
Narangi (meaning Orange) Naranj Orange  
Pippali (meaning Pepper) Piperi (G) Pepper  
Chandana (meaning Sandalwood) Santalon (G) Sandalwood  
Chandra (meaning Moon) Candela (L) (meaning light / torch) Candle  
Chatur (meaning Four) Quartus (L) Quarter  
Shunya (meaning Zero) Cipher (A) Zero  
a (prefix meaning “not” ex: gochara – agochara) a (L)(G) (prefix meaning “not”) a (prefix meaning “not” ex: theiest-atheist  
an (prefix meaning “not” ex: avashya – anavashya) un (L)(G) (prefix meaning “not”) un (prefix meaning “not” ex: do-undo  
Arjuna (meaning Charm of Silver) Argentinum (L) Argentinum – Scientific Name of Silver  
Nava (meaning New) Novus (L) Nova – New  
Kafa (meaning Mucus) Coughen Cough  
Mithya (meaning Lie) Mythos (G) Myth  
Thri (meaning Three) Treis (G) Three  
Mush (meaning Mouse) Mus (L) Mouse  
Maragadum (meaning Emerald) Smaragdus (L) Emerald  
Ghritam (meaning Ghee) ?? Ghee  
Srgalah (meaning Jackal) Shagal (Persian) Jackal  
Nila (meaning Dark Blue) Nilak (Persian) Lilac  
Srgalah Shagal (Persian) Jackal  
Man (Ma as in Malaysia) (meaning Mind) Mens (L) Mind  
Upalah (meaning Precious Stone) Opalus (L) Opal  
Vrihis (meaning Rice) Oriza (L) Rice  
Upalah (meaning Precious Stone) Opalus (L) Opal  

knr  
  
--  
If God brings you to it, He will bring you through it.  
Happy moments, praise God.  
Difficult moments, seek God.  
Quiet moments, worship God.  
Painful moments, trust God.  
  
Every moment, thank God  

  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
To UNSUBSCRIBE or customize your subscription or topics of interest, visit  
<http://mailman.cs.utah.edu/mailman/options/sanskrit>  
and follow instructions.  
  

  

--  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google  
Groups "Foundation for Indian Scientific Heritage" group.  
To post to this group, send email to  
[foundation-for-india...@googlegroups.com]()  
To unsubscribe from this group, send email to  
[foundation-for-indian-scie...@googlegroups.com]()  
For more options, visit this group at  
<http://groups.google.co.in/group/foundation-for-indian-scientific-heritage?hl=en?hl=en-GB>  
HERITAGE AWARENESS MAKES AN ENLIGHTENED CITIZEN.

  
  
  
--  
Aangirasa/Dr.S.Ramakrishna Sharma. M.A.,Ph.D.(Eng.Lit.),Ph.D.(Sanskrit.).  

