+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-09-14, 04:38:35 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/RfwtDVZKzy4)]]



Position: South Asian History, Assistant professor (tenure-track),

  

Carleton College  
Assistant Professor, South Asian History  
Institution Type:College / University  
Location:Minnesota, United States  
Position: Assistant Professor  
  
  
Carleton College announces a tenure-track assistant professorship in South Asian history beginningSeptember 1, 2011. Specialization in any era of South Asian history will be considered. We especially encourage applications from candidates whose work placesSouth Asiain a broader thematic or geographic context (e.g., comparative state-making and imperialism, the formation of ethnic and national identities,gender history, religious history,environmental history, the Indian Ocean world, orSoutheast Asia). The successful candidate will have an active research agenda and be committed to teaching a diversestudent bodyin aliberal arts environment. The position entails contributions to the interdisciplinaryAsian Studies program. Ph.D. or its imminent completion is required, and teaching experience is desirable. Appointment at a higher rank might be considered in extraordinary circumstances.  
  
To apply, please send aletter of application, c.v., one or two sample syllabi, three recentletters of reference, and graduate transcripts, byNovember 1, 2010to: Professor Serena Zabin, Search Committee Chair,Department of History, Carleton College,One North College Street, Northfield, MN 55057. We will interview at the AHA meetings in Boston,January 6-9, 2011. Carleton College is committed to developing its faculty to better reflect the diversity of our student body and American society. Women and members of minority groups are strongly encouraged to apply. Carleton College has aDomestic Partner Benefits Program. E-mail all questions regarding the application process to:[nlam...@carleton.edu]().  
  
  
Contact: Professor Serena Zabin  
Search Committee Chair  
Department of History  
Carleton College  
One North College Street  
Northfield, MN 55057  
  
Website:[http://apps.carleton.edu/curricular/history/](http://apps.carleton.edu/curricular/history/)  
Primary Category: Asian History / Studies  
  
Secondary Categories: Colonial and Post-Colonial History / Studies  
  
Posting Date: 06/30/2010  
Closing Date10/31/2010

