+++
title = "004 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2012-02-12, 00:34:29 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/A2Oucv-EarA)]]



Sir,



I do not speak for the naiyayikas. But since it touches the bounds of science, I would like to clarify the physics involved.



sound is a form of very weak energy; it travels in space in wave form all round. Even within the ear, there is space. so if some sound is created, say by utterance or by the clink of a vessel or the ring of a bell, it travels all around in waves and enters the ear-space of one within reach.



The sound waves are not audible by themselves. But when the sound-waves enter the ear-space the waves strike the walls of the ear and get deflected towards the diaphragm within, which is super sensitive to even mild waves and oscillates, thereby activating the motor nerves to transmit the message to the brains, where the message is converted into sound that we recognise.



Here what is to be noted is that the sound wave by itself is not audible; and does not produce sound. It is the resonance of air in a bounded space that produces sound. This is experimentally verified and demonstrated in classes. Every day, aeroplanes fly past us, but we do not hear them. But in a cloudy atmosphere, you hear the aeroplane. The more cloudy the space, the louder will be the sound. Because in the bounded space, there will be reverberations, the clash of waves to and fro, that create the sound. They same principle works in the ear also.



s.r.krishna murthy  

2012/2/11 Surendra Mohan Mishra \<[dr.surendramo...@gmail.com]()\>



