+++
title = "004 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-mail- IMAP)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-mail- IMAP)	2013-11-28, 10:17:25 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/_V6oPt5oEUI)]]



Namaste



Thanks for the inputs provided on the word ‘Atman’ and its various constructions. Here is the extended question, seeking the application of the rules to a target sentence (lakshya – samanvaya).



1. If the guidance here is applied to arrive at the meaning from a given sentence like : - nAshayAmi AtmabhAvasthaH’ – (The key segment from Gita 10-11 :Reading: teshAmevAnukampArtham, aham, ajnAnajaM , tamaH ; nAshayAmyAtmabhAvastho, jnAnadIpena bhArata) , what will be the outcome ?



2. The reason for this extended asking is Prof.Koradas note: \< In some cases the उपग्रह is known thru the entire sentence rather than आ प / प प -- \>. In the given sentence, the word AtmA is in a samAsa, where the last word (bhAva-sthaH) is a compound word with
kriyaapada-dhatu garbha; and it is to be connected with the independent
kriyApada (nAshayAmi) , to construct the \< agency of action>. This results in a series of actions to be loaded on the primary meaning of the word ‘AtmA’ . After the arrival of the literal meaning of the string, the contextual constructions \< उपग्रह is known thru the entire sentence \> will be the next step.



 2a) If \<AtmA> is construed as independent word from a pre-paninian / outside of vyakarna domain word, then the total meaning of the sentence depends on what one desires to make out from ‘AtmA’ in the sentence. If the literal string meaning is to be contained in the paninian frame, then the outcome may stand out in a discordant way projecting out of some known major schools of Gita interpretation ( or even internal construction by sloka : Samoham sarvabhooteshu *na me dveshyosti* na priyah; Ye bhajanti tu maam bhaktyaa mayi te teshu chaapyaham. Gita 9-29 ). One possible pacification may be to isolate the sections of slokas by chapters and say they differ to different perspectives.

 2b) If we have to build on the corollaries of this, would we end up in statements like ‘ na nAshayAmi para-bhAvasthaH’ (- in which case the larger impact of the agency role of AtmA : popularly constructed as the agency of God Sri Krishna in saving the seeking devotees would be difficult to sustain); ‘ para-bhAvasthaH rakshyAmi / dadAmi ’ ( I work through the intermediary agency to benefit the seeking devotee ?! – which brings in the validating authority for the agency role of Gurus and religious institutions) ??



3. As we debate the ‘meaning of a given Samskrutham Sentence’
froma resource far separated in time from and is an inheritance to
Paninian rule constructions, especially a word like ‘AtmA’ which (a) has a multivalent , stratified connotation. The entirety of meanings and contexts are not listed fully in the dictionaries. The interpreters and translators use multiple lenses of Panini and Acharyas to make their view points. This is with a further complication, by use of inaccurately mapped meanings of Samskrutham vocabulary in dictionaries with bias and faith flavors. 



In this context, the importance of getting the primary literal string meaning ( vaktru vikashita artha / vakya tAtparya nirNaya) by language standards using a language - grammar rule serves as an important anchor. I am aware that word-meaning is not the department for Panini; but when it comes to the rules of samAsa –compounding multiply, Panini becomes relevant and critical.



The query needs to be specifically addressed for word-meaning extraction and string-meaning- construction by : What is the plain linguistic literal meaning of ‘AtmA’ in the given string ? What are the anchor rules of grammar for firming up the meaning construction? 



Regards

BVK Sastry



--  

निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
---  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/groups/opt_out>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

No virus found in this message.  
Checked by AVG - [www.avg.com](http://www.avg.com)  
Version: 2014.0.4259 / Virus Database: 3629/6871 - Release Date: 11/27/13

