+++
title = "031 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2017-12-20, 16:51:38 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/0unW4-lv7Jc)]]



Namaste



1. Congratulations, Professor Varakhedi to be stationed at a position
from where you can steer some of the critical changes that Samskruth education is needing at the current moment. 

 You have been promoted from a ‘chair of flowers’ to a ‘throne of thorns’.



2. Coming back to the concerns expressed by Prof. Veeranarayana Pandurangi and Prof. RNI in an earlier mail, I place my views below.
There is a time to rejoice and look for introspection and peep in to the future to see what we want to see as the ‘ Future of Samskruth Education’. I am well aware of the policy document on Samskruth education in formulating which you had contributed a wealth of information. We have talked on these matters earlier in detail.



 ***The suggested action is*** : Let us get the Indian Sanskrit Universities and UGC / HR Ministries answer to the question : **What is the Study of Sanskrit For in India ? What is the way forward in the given scenario ?**

 This will help society to understand ‘ Position of Samskruth in Bharath’ Or imagine a ‘Bharath minus Samskruth’. 



 The deliberation needs to address : What benefit would return to the Nation and tax payers rupee spent on maintaining the Sanskrit University institution and studies? 



 Should it be for continuation of colonial legacy scholarship ?

 Or

 Restore Bharateeya Bhashaa Samskruthi ?

 Or

 Serve ‘ Religion language teaching needed by the religion community needs at Mandirs’ ?

 Or

 Avail benefits of equal treatment for all languages listed in the constitution ?



 One may go on the defensive here quoting the preambles to the formation of university, the quotes from Constitutional judgments,
emotional appeal et al. If that is enough reason , then it becomes obligatory on the part of Government to set the targets for Sanskrit University education schemas, College curriculum and school trilingual policy guidelines. Conversational Sanskrit does generate a ‘ public awareness and sympathy, and a ‘ heritage pride’. The audit shifts to the implementation part from the ‘ policy formulation’ part. Beyond that something more, a social relevance is needed to meet the sufficiency condition. Rest of the debate becomes meaningless.



 If my questions sound a little awkward for the Samskruth fraternity, I seek the ‘*kshamaa*’ at the outset. I feel much more awkward to ask these questions, being a part of all the team over here.

 I am not any outsider to the discipline.



 The awkwardness of questions do not make the questions itself any less important or out of context. In fact these questions are just the same questions which any ‘ Shaastrakaara’ would raise at the beginning of

 his work, as ‘Anubandha Chatushtaya’. And modern business schools would call this as a ‘W- and Wh- questions answering a business plan’.



 I may take a fig leaf cover that I am not the only one to ask these questions ! Professor Minkowski, delivering the Inaugural Lecture for the Boden Professorship, at University of Oxford , on 7 March, 2006
asked similar sounding questions . ( Full paper at <http://users.ox.ac.uk/~ball2185/Minkowski.Inaugural.pdf> ) The crux of the issue is in asking the right question : (Extract from Minkowski need an Indian answer here.



 Minkowski argued: **What is the Study of Sanskrit For? What is the way forward? ….. What then is possible? Is there a way forward? ….. How can we avoid the hazards which have constrained students of Sanskrit in the past? The answer, I would suggest, lies in the changed circumstances in which we now live.** Concluding the lecture, he notes: All of this began with a rude question: what should the study of Sanskrit at Oxford be for? I hope that by now this audience will agree with me at least about what it should not be for. **The study of Sanskrit at Oxford should not be to serve as the handmaiden of state purposes, nor to bring about the religious conversion of “natives.” Nor should it be for the sake of invidious cultural comparison; nor to celebrate or endorse social practices that institutionalize human degradation**. \[Nor, one hopes, should it be solely for encouraging self-congratulation among the very clever… \]



 And if a small tweaking is done here, the question would be ( as my good friend Dr.Yadu keeps pushing on viniyoga part) 

 : **What is the Battle: Sanskrit For? What is the way forward? ….. What then is possible? Is there a way forward?**



***The questions elaborated*** :



2a) **Can we accept where Samskruth education is at its current** **‘ alarming situation’ and plan to move forward ? If so what is Samskruth Institutional road map and resource needs to deliver what goals ?**

** What is the clarity on the role of three institutions :
University, College and a School, towards Samskruth education ? How does Bharath desire to shape the future of Samskruth education and ‘ language in society : Classical, Social, Religious ? **

** And how would these be better or different from what has been delivered over and above the work done by ‘ gurukuls of yester years ( prior to 1600 C.E) did deliver’? **

****

** **Enough has been written, debated on ‘who caused the damage, when, the need for ‘swadesi initiatives’, advise from seniors to go ‘world class in indology’( ? or Bharateeyataa ?? emic or etic perspective ) . There is a need to go beyond closed room chatting and preaching to the choir.



2b) **What would be the ‘ right and appropriate way for Samskruth studies and Research in the University’ ?** where drastic steps are needed ? Does the provisions in the University schema provide provisions for it ? (I do know that in the erstwhile ‘ College model’, the professors would ensure that nothing of inferior quality left the college with their name and signature at stake ! ) Would \< concentrate to set the rules for administration of samskrit universities across nation \> be enough of a challenge to address here ? 



 Rules of administration and Passion for training quality output are like fire and water ! difficult to mix and match !



2c) On the point \< bogus research due to the UGC pressure \> ? The concept of traditional ‘ Paanditya’ and Concept of ‘ Modern Research’ / Research journal are again like fire and water !



 The traditional scholar ‘ Padnita with Paanditya’ would always stand by the ‘ Acharya –paramparaa’. If a new thought –sampradaya were to begin, the student has to be a real yogi, a tapasvi, a Rushi, a Yajnavalkya, a Viswamaitra ( and NOT a Maxmuller !) . I do not think any Sanskrit university has a goal , ever set the goal by design or policy or priority in training a ‘ Tapasvi’. They have neither the resources, nor the directive or the students who come for studies with this intention ! The ‘ Pandit training for vidwat-Paanditya’ has locked itself out of science and society, with a clear backward looking face and seeking a 14^(th) century rule observance and compatibility. The validation of such traditional scholar is limited to profuse quoting of earlier texts, lack of critical acumen, lack of interest in studying society and modern disciplines, and
social display of cultural attire. ( Exceptions, being always present).



 Contra, the ‘ Modern Researcher’ swims across disciplines , surfing on the periphery, lacks the inner disciplining and depth of any single Shaastra and commitment to any single sampradaya. A modern scholar of today can keep allegiance to Vednata today, saamkhya tomorrow and
charvaka day after tomorrow to enjoy ‘ *Ghrutam*’. all the time! And conscientiously violate all the sacred tenets of sampradaya !



2d) It is a good wish list to say \<we need to reform the curriculum, departmentisation of knowledge so our students will get comprehensive knowledge of shastras.we need to integrate modern subjects like yoga and computer to help our students to be employable. \> Who will pull the resources and government machinery for this work ? How ? within the bounds of Constitution and Governance ? 



2e) Professor RNI has made important point on Research related. It is equally important to take note of.



Concluding, What we see in many of the ‘ aarta –naada/ dayaabdhe trahi maam sharanaagatam’ model prayers is a despair and hope that some ‘ Kalki’ will come and cut the opposition to pieces. What we ont seem to realize is that the ‘given situation’ is a gift from the past administrators of university and departments, in many cases, who paved the ‘ compassionate way’ for ‘ death of Samskrutha Shaastra – Paanditya’ in multiple ways. I do not wish to make any pointing finger to ‘ poorva-acharyas’; but realizing the legacy of the problem would be helpful to ensure repletion of earlier mistakes.



I would be willing to be of any help to address some of the problems raised here by Professor Veera Narayana Pandurangi and RNI.



Regards

BVK Sastry



