+++
title = "009 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2014-07-16, 09:12:15 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/N9XMiIC9SeQ)]]



July 15, 2014



Saadara PraNaama,



Is there connection between the festival of Vijaya Dashami and Shami tree. I have seen people performing circumbulations around Shami tree in my home town. Thanks. N.R.Joshi

  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: ashish sharma \<[cools...@gmail.com]()\>  
To: "[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()" \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Source of the word Shami/शमी tree  
Date: Tue, 15 Jul 2014 18:35:04 +0530  
  

Dear Guruvars

Pranaam



I heartily thanks to Nityanand Ji and Dipak Ji for their valuable support.

Sh. Nityanand Ji, I have read following shloka on Shami:

शमी शमयते पापम् शमी शत्रुविनाशिनी ।  
अर्जुनस्य धनुर्धारी रामस्य प्रियदर्शिनी ॥



This shloka had given me some idea that might be their is some relation between Ram and Shami tree. Might be its not true but if you can give some guidance then it will be helpful.



Regards

Decrypting of Astrological Texts  
OSD to President and Assistant Controller of Examination of Indian Council of Astrological Sciences(ICAS)  
  

On Tue, Jul 15, 2014 at 8:29 AM, Dipak Bhattacharya \<[dipak...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> > 'The significance of the Śamī tree in the Veda', H.C.Patyal, > *Traividyam*, Subarnarekha, Kolkata, 2001:137-146 offers some useful > information. >
> Best >
> DB >
> 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > On Mon, Jul 14, 2014 at 5:07 PM, ashish sharma > \<[cools...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > Dear Guruvars > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Pranaam > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 









\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**The #1 Worst Carb Ever?**  
Click to Learn #1 Carb that Kills Your Blood Sugar (Don't Eat This!)  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/53c55d2216ca55d215f34st03vuc)[FixYourBloodSugar.com](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/53c55d2216ca55d215f34st03vuc)

