+++
title = "006 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-06-26, 22:08:49 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/kQcrjCZ2qTM)]]



Namaste



On \< While doing dhyAna, one should visualise \> and \< In such dhyana shlokas is there a schema to decide whether the left or the right tusk of Ganapathi is broken? >



1. This explanation is text based understanding and/or half knowledge of the practice of ‘ Tantra – Yoga Technicality of ‘Devataa- Mantra -Dhyana’.

2. The real technicality of ‘Dhyana’ is to be followed by Yoga Sutra – 3.2 noted below, as a rising sequence from ‘ Pratyaahaara’ progressing to Dharanaa and Dhyana.



3.1 (deshah bandhah chittasya dharana)



3.2 (tatra pratyaya ekatanata dhyanam)



3.3 (tad eva artha matra nirbhasam svarupa shunyam iva samadhih) 



3. The ‘ Mantra’ technicality of ‘ Tantra / Ishta devataa Dhyana’ will be a step wise instruction for some one who has passed through the
Ashtaanga – Yogaanga lane. It is NOT simple language terms transaltion, visualization and imaginations. The ‘ Transformations in Pakruti’ do not take place by ‘ wishing visualizations and imaginations’. It calls for ‘ Prana- Shakti ‘ activiation and working with ‘ Panchabhootas’.

Long way to go !  

 4. Regarding ‘ Broken tusk of Ganapati on left or right’ -
when one is ready to ‘see face to face, at arms distance, an elephantine mass of deep blue color about 10 feet tall weighing 6000 KGs and trumpeting at a high pitch sounding like Om’, the issue can be resolved ! Till then, it is artists imagination, iconographers choice and scholars interpretation of the given text ! What I mean to say is : The ‘Dhyana Sloka and darshana’ guides the reality of experience here.



Regards

BVK Sastry



--  

You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  

To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().



