+++
title = "010 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-06-27, 10:37:30 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/kQcrjCZ2qTM)]]



Namaste



The gap between the ‘ text understanding by lexicon and translations
for practice’ and ‘ practical Yoga to reach the end goal of mantra siddhi’ are poles apart ! Expertise in teaching a book on cooking does not help to get tasty food on table.



Reasons:



a) On \< If I was on speaking terms with Ucchista Ganapathi \> :
Even before a saadhaka is on ‘ distant sight of the Devataa seeking a mantra siddhi’, one needs to practice several foundational preparations, even before the physical panchopachara ! The rise of ‘panchopachara’ to the real experience of ‘ panchbhoota tattva’ is a long journey of ‘ Dhyana, which begins with ‘ Pratyaahaara’ ; which again is built on ‘ Praanaayama = Expansion of Pancha – Pranas inside the Saadhaka shareera’. Books tell all this in a coded way; the ‘ fast
learners’ don’t want to go with the guidance.



In short, the speaking terms with Ucchista Ganapati would take place IF Ucchista Ganapati is any where in sight of saadhaka and sensing the presence . It is neither imagination, visualization or hallucination. 



b) On \< panchopachara puja to a mentally constructed form of Ganesha that aligns with the dhyana shloka \> : Horse before the cart proposition ! The ‘Mantrokta Devataa (= Naama) ’ manifests in an appropriate form (roopa) through the practice of ‘ Yoga- Prakriyaa’;
Dhyaana as given in PYS 3-2 is an intermediary instruction.



c) On \< If the end goal of mantra siddhi is reached \> : Driving a car without the knowledge of destination or road !

 One needs to learn driving to use the car. This is ‘ Ishta Devataa Mantra Saadhanaa’.

 The ‘darshana’ of devataa’ is the official license to drive the car. This is the ‘SAMYAMA’ layer.

 After ‘SAMYAMA’, there is the most important concept of ‘ VINIYOGA’. That is the marker of ‘ End goal of Mantra Siddhi’.



 **To Know about VINIYOGA, please explore earlier posts by Dr. Yadu Moharir on this forum itself. And study his book on ‘Ganesha’.**



d) On \< The core idea is to align with the process as far as possible so that the end goal is not missed \> : The core idea is ‘ Utility Application = VINIYOGA.

 This word is drilled repeatedly in Mantra saadhanaa with the expression ‘Jape viniyogah’.

 When one does not understand (i) what is Japa (ii) What is Viniyoga and the connection between japa- viniyoga with the Saptami
Vibhakti relation, one gets locked in the intermediary mechanics of 

 ‘panchopachaara poojaa’, text segments on rotating the japa-maalaa, the havan and dravya combinations and proportions.

 All part of external processes. To say with an example –‘ Monsanto seeds’.



 This is what I have been repeating as ‘ loss of tradition’ – the ‘ loss of yoga way of studying –practicing Samskrutham:: Vak- Yoga’. 



