+++
title = "012 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2015-11-29, 17:27:06 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/U2XRZggnxO0)]]



Here is good article on Garlic  
  
<https://umm.edu/health/medical/altmed/herb/garlic>  
  
<http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17966136>  
  
Report on Blood from Eyes was reported in NEJM when Garlic & Ginkgo was consumed.  
  
<https://books.google.com/books?id=M3_sAgAAQBAJ&pg=PA61&lpg=PA61&dq=garlic+AND+bleeding+eyes+nejm&source=bl&ots=6kXT-aMtK7&sig=7vtsZwIIp535LiTQdV9pwH4XU2I&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwig3sDOxrXJAhVHl4gKHQETANAQ6AEIPTAC#v=onepage&q=garlic%20AND%20bleeding%20eyes%20nejm&f=false>  
  
IMO - Our ancestors must have observed that consumption of Garlic may increase blood flow due to reduction of platelet counts, this may increase desire of amorous behavior and thus the recommendation in "shastra" could possibly be justified.  
  
Dr Yadu  
  
--------------------------------------------  
On Sat, 11/28/15, 'sadasivamurty rani' via भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत् \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\> wrote:  
  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Onion and Garlic - Taboo - Mention in Sastras  
To: "[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()" \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
Date: Saturday, November 28, 2015, 8:04 AM  

  
Here two  
points are to be observed.1. Eating  
or not eating Onion and Garlic as a part of our food  
ingredients. This is one aspect.2. Using  
Onion and Garlic as medicines in Ayurveda. This is another  

aspect.Both are  

two different things.  
I ) As a part of  

FoodAs a part  

of food both are prohibited to be eaten  
byi) those  
who are in ritualistic practices and Yajna  
Diksha  
ii) who  
are performing austerities and  
iii) those  
who are following the principles of celibacy (and by those  
who are just unmarried).iv)  
Sanyasins are prohibited from eating these  
two.  
v)Grhasthas  
(House holders) also while performing Caturmasya Vrata  
(Chaturmasya vrata is recommended even for those who are  
Grhastha Asrama)  
vi) And by  
those who are in the austerities of Pitru Karmas (Either  
during the Mrta Asaucha and Sraddha karma)  
also..  
Still  
there is a long list by whom these should not be  

eaten.These two  



referred to for this purpose).So as along as they are taken as a part of  

our medicinal treatment it is not  
wrong.While discussing the properties (Rasa, Guna,  
Virya, Vipaka and Prabhava) of different kinds of  
medicines and medicinal mediums the properties of Onion,  
Garlic, Meat of different animals, Wine, Liquor etc also are  
well described in those texts.  
Thirdly,  
even the Dharma Sastra Texts never prohibited all the people  

to eat these things.As said in  

the previous mails depending on the individual food habits  
eating these things was in vogue as in case of the meat,  
chicken, flesh etc. by the Non-vegetarians.  
Dr. Rani  
Sadasiva Murty  
  
  

From: Gomathi K.V.  
\<[gomathi...@gmail.com]()\>  
To:  
[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
Sent: Saturday, 28  
November 2015 4:21 PM  
Subject:  
{भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्}  
Onion and Garlic - Taboo - Mention in Sastras  
  



