+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2011-04-01, 04:53:04 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/g7zM8UAqPvI)]]



Kashmiris populated Europe 40,000 years back: Study

‘Archeologically Proven That Neanderthal Man Lived In Valley’

FAHEEM ASLAM Lastupdate on : Thu, 31 Mar 2011 18:30:00 GMT

  

Srinagar, Mar 31: An international study has found that Europe was populated by people from Kashmir around 40,000 years back and that they carry two to four percent Neanderthal genes – an ancient species of homosapiens.

The study, conducted by the UC Davis Anthropology Department at the United States of America, has found that about four percent (ranging from two to five percent) of all modern humans not of African descent have Neanderthal genes left over from matings between the two peoples in prehistoric times.

  

Referring to the study, an article in allvoices—a global community that shares news, videos, images and opinions tied to news events and people—reads that “scientists look for genetic signatures to classify an individual’s mtDNA (mitochondria DNA) into different types, or haplogroups. These haplogroups represent major branches on the family tree of Homo sapiens. A 30,000-year old Russian cave man had U2 mtDNA. And people in Europe today have U2 DNA as well as people living in India.”

  

“You have numerous people with U2e, the European version of U2 living in Europe, especially in Italy today, and Germany as well as other places in Europe. It’s widely distributed throughout all of Europe in current times. And you have India-specific U2i mtDNA living primarily in India, especially NW India and Kashmir,” reads an excerpt from the study, published by allvoices. “So was Europe populated by people from India, Kashmir, and Pakistan as well as the rest of Central Asia? Yes. And after that migration, around 40,000 years ago moving West into Russia and then into the rest of Europe came another migration from the Middle East, when climate allowed it to open up, around 45,000 years ago. A lot of those cave people were mammoth hunters or followed the animal herds before the last ice age began. But U2 in Europe is still pretty rare in modern populations, although it does exist.”

  

Quoting another study published by Cosmos Magazine, the study reveals that as humans migrated out of Africa 100,000 to 50,000 years ago, some individuals interbred with Neanderthal and as a result some genetic sequences can be found in all non-African humans.

  

A number of articles have in the past six months appeared in international media—quoting different studies—that Neanderthal genes have been found in some modern humans.

  

“Neanderthals were more muscular with more body fat, a wide waist, and also had a wide rib cage, short limbs, stocky, short bodies, and didn’t run very fast. The circular bones in their inner ears that helped to control gait, kept them from moving fast on foot. In contrast, Homo sapiens had larger circular bones in their ears, allowing them to run fast. They were tall and thin,” reads the allvoices piece. “Basically, homo sapiens were perfectly suited to African climate. Neanderthals were suited to very cold weather, for example, the climate in ice age Europe. Neanderthals had larger brains and heads, but were shorter in height and had short life spans. But both had similar hyoid bones, allowing for at least basic speech.”

  

According to excerpts, it is archeologically a proven fact that Neanderthal man—a long extinct species—has lived in Kashmir. “Archeologically one can establish that Neanderthal man has lived in Kashmir, Pakistan and Central Asia. However we cannot say whether his genes are still available in these areas or not,” said Prof Aijaz Banday, professor of Archaeology at the University of Kashmir. “Unless and until we have the DNA profile of the people in these areas, then only it can be properly established. That profiling has not been done so far. One cannot outrightly deny such studies that Neanderthal genes are present in Kashmir, but we can authentically prove it only after going for the DNA profiling.”

<http://www.greaterkashmir.com/news/2011/Apr/1/kashmiris-populated-europe-40-000-years-back-study-44.asp>

  

DNA find deepens Neanderthal mystery

  

Thursday, 16 November 2006

Jacqui Hayes

Artist's impression of a Neanderthal hunter. <http://www.cosmosmagazine.com/files/imagecache/news/files/20061031_neander.jpg>

Credit: American Museum of Natural History

  

  

SYDNEY: Ancient DNA extracted from a 38,000-year-old Neanderthal bone is shedding light on crucial questions about human evolution.

  

The human and Neanderthal genomes are "from 99.5 to almost 99.9 per cent identical," said Edward Rubin of Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory in California, the leader of one of the two international teams who have sequenced large parts of its genetic code.

  

"\[There are\] 3 million base pair differences between Neanderthals and Homo sapiens, which is sort of like a drop in the bucket when one considers that the human genome is 3 billion base pairs." Rubin said. "Chimpanzees, on the other hand, differ from humans \[by\] 30 to 50 million base pairs."

  

The researchers are confident they should be able to work out the complete DNA sequence of our closest relatives within two years, revealing what makes us different from the Neanderthals.

  

So far, the DNA analysis suggests that Neanderthals and modern humans split from a common lineage about 500,000 years ago, and there was little, if any interbreeding of the two species.

  

Neanderthals were shorter and stouter than modern humans, but with larger brains. They inhabited Europe, central Asia and the Middle East for about 170,000 years before disappearing between 33,000 to 24,000 years ago, coinciding with the migration of modern humans out of Africa.

  

One of the greatest mysteries in the history of hominids is what actually happened to the Neanderthals. Some theories suggest that modern humans out-competed and replaced the Neanderthals. Others propose that interbreeding occurred, with Neanderthals being absorbed into the modern human population.

  

Rubin thinks the latter theory is unlikely: "While unable to definitely conclude that interbreeding between the two species of humans did not occur, analysis of the nuclear DNA from the Neanderthal suggests the low likelihood of it having occurred at any appreciable level," he said.

  

This follows a report earlier this month of ancient hominid remains from Romania that had features of both modern humans and Neanderthals. The authors of that study considered the findings evidence that humans and Neanderthals interbred, disproving the theory that Neanderthals were simply replaced (read more).

  

The debate will be settled when the complete Neanderthal genome is sequenced, according Svante Pääbo of the Max Plank Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology in Germany, the leader of one of the research teams.

  

Ancient DNA from extinct species is notoriously difficult to sequence because it is usually highly fragmented and contaminated with DNA from other species. This has led some researchers to claim the task is impossible.

  

But when Pääbo tested the leg bone of a 38,000-year-old Neanderthal, he found it remarkably free of contaminants, and shared the DNA extracts with Rubin. The two researchers led teams that sequenced the genome using different methods, both publishing their results today and proving that ancient DNA can, in fact, be sequenced.

  

Pääbo and his colleagues sequenced more than one million base pairs using recent advances in DNA sequencing technology. The DNA was split into fragments (which meant that fragmentation due to age was not a problem) and was then reassembled by comparing these fragments with human sequences.

  

According to Pääbo's team, Neanderthals and humans diverged from a common lineage between 465,000 and 569,000 years ago, with their best estimate at 516,000 years ago. The team publish their results today in the British journal Nature.

  

Rubin and his colleagues sequenced 65,000 base pairs by adapting methods used on organisms that are not readily grown in laboratories. They targeted the Neanderthal sequences most similar to human genes, recovering 29 of the 35 genes targeted in this way.

  

Rubin's estimate of human and Neanderthal divergence - which largely agrees with Pääbo's - is between 120,000 and 670,000 year ago, with their best estimate at 370,000 years ago. His team published their results today in the U.S. journal Science.

  

According to Pääbo, sequencing the entire Neanderthal genome will provide crucial insights into human evolution. "\[Soon\] we will be able to say more about the interaction between Neanderthals and modern humans," he said. "Did Neanderthals contribute to the variation of us today \[and\] the reverse question: did early modern humans interbreed and contribute to genetic variation of Neanderthals?"

<http://www.cosmosmagazine.com/news/853/dna-find-deepens-neanderthal-mystery>

  

Humans and Neanderthals interbred, according to our anatomy

  

Thursday, 2 November 2006

by Jacqui Hayes

SYDNEY: Modern humans contain a little bit of Neanderthal, according to a new theory, because the two interbred and became one species.

  

The theory is the latest addition to the ongoing debate about what happened to this early species of human.

  

In a paper published this week in the U.S. journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, a team of European researchers report a "mosaic of modern human and archaic Neanderthal features" in 30,000 -year-old human fossils from Romania.

  

Co-author Erik Trinkaus from Washington University explains: "\[Some\] closely related species of mammals freely interbreed, produce fertile viable offspring, and blend populations." This is what appears to have happened with Neanderthals and modern humans, he says.

  

Shorter and stouter than modern humans, but with larger brains, Neanderthals lived in Europe, central Asia and the Middle East for about 170,000 years before disappearing between 33,000 to 24,000 years ago.

  

Their extinction coincided with the migration of modern humans out of Africa and across Europe. Few mysteries in the history of human ancestry have been as hotly debated as what caused the extinction of the Neanderthals.

  

Some scientific theories have Neanderthals dying out because they were less well-adapted to the climate changes that occurred across Europe at that time. Others cite evidence of a more brutal end, in which Neanderthals were slaughtered by modern humans.

  

This new study helps to settle the controversy. According to the researchers, the populations probably blended together through sexual reproduction. "Extinction through absorption is a common phenomenon," says Trinkaus.

  

The human remains were found in Pestera Muierii ('Cave of the Old Woman'), an elaborate cave system in Romania. First uncovered in 1952, the fossils remained poorly dated and largely ignored until recently.

  

Using carbon dating techniques, Trinkaus and colleagues found that the remains were 30,000 years old. Their analysis of the bones revealed diagnostic skeletal features of modern humans, including smaller eyebrow ridges, very narrow holes where the nostrils join the skull, and a shin bone that is flat on one side and concave on the other.

  

However the mostly human skeletons also possessed distinct Neanderthal features; features that were not present in ancestral modern humans in Africa. These include a large bulge at the back of the skull, a more prominent projection around the elbow joint, and a narrow socket at the shoulder joint.

  

Further analysis of one skeleton's shoulder showed that these humans did not have the full set of anatomical adaptations for throwing projectiles, such as spears, during hunting.

  

According to the researchers, this mixture of human and Neanderthal features suggests that a complicated reproductive scenario existed as humans and Neandertals interbred. The hypothesis that the Neanderthals were simply replaced should therefore be abandoned, they suggest.

  

Trinkaus says we may carry some of the genetic legacy of the Neanderthals within us. However it would be difficult to determine which of us are more closely related to the Neanderthals: "there has been 30,000 to 35,000 years of human evolution since then," he says. <http://www.cosmosmagazine.com/node/814>

See also: <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neanderthal>

^ "Neanderthal bone gives DNA clues". Associated Press. CNN. 16 November 2006. Archived from the original on 18 November 2006. Retrieved 18 May 2009. <http://web.archive.org/web/20061118050935/http://edition.cnn.com/2006/TECH/science/11/15/neanderthal.ap/index.html>

^ Than, Ker; LiveScience (15 November 2006). "Scientists decode Neanderthal genes". MSNBC. Retrieved 18 May 2009. <http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/15732243/>

  

Neanderthal genes 'survive in us'

  

By Paul Rincon

Science reporter, BBC News

Many people alive today possess some Neanderthal ancestry, according to a landmark scientific study.

The finding has surprised many experts, as previous genetic evidence suggested the Neanderthals made little or no contribution to our inheritance.

The result comes from analysis of the Neanderthal genome - the "instruction manual" describing how these ancient humans were put together.

Between 1% and 4% of the Eurasian human genome seems to come from Neanderthals.

But the study confirms living humans overwhelmingly trace their ancestry to a small population of Africans who later spread out across the world.

\[Neanderthals\] are not totally extinct, in some of us they live on - a little bit 

Professor Svante Paabo

Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology

The most widely-accepted theory of modern human origins - known as Out of Africa - holds that the ancestors of living humans (Homo sapiens) originated in Africa some 200,000 years ago.

A relatively small group of people then left the continent to populate the rest of the world between 50,000 and 60,000 years ago.

While the Neanderthal genetic contribution - found in people from Europe, Asia and Oceania - appears to be small, this figure is higher than previous genetic analyses have suggested.

"They are not totally extinct. In some of us they live on, a little bit," said Professor Svante Paabo, from the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology in Leipzig, Germany.

Professor Chris Stringer, research leader in human origins at London's Natural History Museum, is one of the architects of the Out of Africa theory. He told BBC News: "In some ways \[the study\] confirms what we already knew, in that the Neanderthals look like a separate line.

"But, of course, the really surprising thing for many of us is the implication that there has been some interbreeding between Neanderthals and modern humans in the past."

John Hawks, assistant professor of anthropology at the University of Wisconsin-Madison in the US, told BBC News: "They're us. We're them.

"It seemed like it was likely to be possible, but I am surprised by the amount. I really was not expecting it to be as high as 4%," he said of the genetic contribution from Neanderthals.

The sequencing of the Neanderthal genome is a landmark scientific achievement, the product of a four-year-long effort led from Germany's Max Planck Institute but involving many other universities around the world.

The project makes use of efficient "high-throughput" technology which allows many genetic sequences to be processed at the same time.

The draft Neanderthal sequence contains DNA extracted from the bones of three different Neanderthals found at Vindija Cave in Croatia.

Retrieving good quality genetic material from remains tens of thousands of years old presented many hurdles which had to be overcome.

The samples almost always contained only a small amount of Neanderthal DNA amid vast quantities of DNA from bacteria and fungi that colonised the remains after death.

  

Svante Paabo (pictured here with a Neanderthal skull) led the research effort

  

The Neanderthal DNA itself had broken down into very short segments and had changed chemically. Luckily, the chemical changes were of a predictable nature, allowing the researchers to write software that corrected for them.

Writing in Science journal, the researchers describe how they compared this draft sequence with the genomes of modern people from around the globe.

"The comparison of these two genetic sequences enables us to find out where our genome differs from that of our closest relative," said Professor Paabo.

Those things that made the Neanderthals apparent to us as a population - those things didn't work 

Dr John Hawks

University of Wisconsin-Madison

The results show that the genomes of non-Africans (from Europe, China and New Guinea) are closer to the Neanderthal sequence than are those from Africa.

The most likely explanation, say the researchers, is that there was limited mating, or "gene flow", between Neanderthals and the ancestors of present-day Eurasians.

This must have taken place just as people were leaving Africa, while they were still part of one pioneering population. This mixing could have taken place either in North Africa, the Levant or the Arabian Peninsula, say the researchers.

Professor Stringer added: "Any functional significance of these shared genes remains to be determined, but that will certainly be a focus for the next stages of this fascinating research."

The Out of Africa theory contends that modern humans replaced local "archaic" populations like the Neanderthals.

But there are several variations on this idea. The most conservative model proposes that this replacement took place with no interbreeding between modern humans and Neanderthals.

Unique features

Another version allows for a degree of assimilation, or absorption, of other human types into the Homo sapiens gene pool.

The latest research strongly supports the Out of Africa theory, but it falsifies the most conservative version of events.

The team identified more than 70 gene changes that were unique to modern humans. These genes are implicated in physiology, the development of the brain, skin and bone.

The researchers also looked for signs of "selective sweeps" - strong natural selection acting to boost traits in modern humans. They found 212 regions where positive selection may have been taking place.

The scientists are interested in discovering genes that distinguish modern humans from Neanderthals because they may have given our evolutionary line certain advantages over the course of evolution.

The most obvious differences were in physique: the muscular, stocky frames of Neanderthals contrast sharply with those of our ancestors. But it is likely there were also more subtle differences, in behaviour, for example.

Dr Hawks commented that the amount of Neanderthal DNA in our genomes seemed high: "What it means is that any traits \[Neanderthals\] had that might have been useful in later populations should still be here.

"So when we see that their anatomies are gone, this isn't just chance. Those things that made the Neanderthals apparent to us as a population - those things didn't work. They're gone because they didn't work in the context of our population."

Researchers had previously thought Europe was the region where Neanderthals and modern humans were most likely to have exchanged genes. The two human types overlapped here for some 10,000 years.

The authors of the paper in Science do not rule out some interbreeding in Europe, but say it was not possible to detect this with present scientific methods.

  

[Paul.Rinco...@bbc.co.uk]() <http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/science/nature/8660940.stm>

  

