+++
title = "007 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2016-06-19, 02:15:29 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/V4SmeqS8fOQ)]]



Dear Dr. Hari Bhat, Namaste!

Thanks for your information on Madra desha and Shaakala king.

\(1\) I was referring to page 35 of the book of Satyakama Varma (studies in Indology).

Discussion is about Shaishiriya recention of Shaakala and Baas’kala schools of Rigveda and Rigveda Praatishaakya. It was said in the book that Dr Suryakanta has resolved the issue saying Praatishaakya is equally related to both schools of Rigveda. He added that this appears to be true to a larger extent as Shaakalyapitaa, Shaakalya and Shaakala are mostly quoted for their different observations.

\(2\) Book-The Praatishaakya tradition and Modern Linguistics by D. D. Mahulkar.

Page 65----Discussion is about Doubling of consonants in words like Yukktaah. Here the grammarian Shaakalya’s opinion is given about doubling.

It looks to me Shaakalya and Shaakala were two different persons.

Beyond this I do not have any more information. Thanks . N.R.Joshi

















(2) Book-The Praatishaakya tradition and Modern Linguistics by D. D. Mahulkar.

Page 65----Discussion is about Doubling of consonants in words like Yukktaah. Here the grammarian Shaakalya’s opinion is given about doubling.

It looks to me Shaakalya and Shaakala were two different persons.

Thanks to all who participated and contributed to my question. N.R.Joshi



--  

You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**Yahoo Search**  
How To Apply For Business Loans  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/5765b2ad444a232ac077est01vuc)<http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/5765b2ad444a232ac077est01vuc>

