+++
title = "029 Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)	2016-01-23, 12:26:42 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/gv-TtlC2Q3A)]]



Namaste Paturi ji



1. Good points in the post on what was the original Indian name for ‘University’ and the model of higher education in India.



 Let me start with the reference statement by you \< Many historians state that universities and cathedral schools were a continuation of the interest in learning promoted by monasteries." \>



2. When Education portfolio in Post Independence (Secular) India was addressed by the Government policy makers, the UNIVESRITY model became the fancy and ‘ economically and employment wise’ State sponsored model of education. And this now has taken its own new ways under UGC , Accreditation, Deemed Universities etc;.



Contra, lacking the Government (Maharaja –Ashraya) and suffering under the ministerial diktats ( Amatya –Bhikshaa), the Ashrams and Gurukuls have receded to background.



Result is total devastation of ( Traditional education in Gurukul frame) + ( Inappropriate delivery of Tradition in University model) .

This Hybrid monster of ‘ Traditional education’ is being guarded in the name of ‘ Culture’ by ‘ political interests’.



The truth and ground reality does seem unpalatable and ugly; but do you have any better way to state it more palatable and wrap it nice clothe to make it good looking? Beyond lamenting ?



3. It is in this context, again drawing from your own post, I am asking: what plans one can suggest to align the values of \<
European higher education> where \< for hundreds of years in Christian cathedral schools or monastic schools (*scholae monasticae*), in which monks and nuns taught classes \> to the values of University professionals under UGC schemas? 



The question has much deeper undertone issues : What is the Commercial
contemporary Professional Earning Value of Traditional studies and disciplines? Can a scholar of Veda after 15 years of study in a gurukul get a remuneration any where in India on par with an engineer / Doctor / Lawyer who spends same time and makes a good life ? What as where things have gone wrong ( Don’t say it is Kaliyuga Dharma predicted by Vyasa thousands of years ago ?!) How will one transform a Gurukul to Global University ? Why ?



Look forward for your views.



Regards

BVK Sastry 







\-  









