+++
title = "003 R. N. iyengar"

+++
[[R. N. iyengar	2016-08-08, 13:26:43 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/krsqrPsRfJM)]]



**Thanks Dr BVK for your interest in my methods of understanding some parts of RV. You write:**

***I am furthering this thread of interpretative exploration and seek your further inputs**: Assuming for argument sake, RV –x.85 of an earlier period found an express practical usage in a ‘ Marriage –Samskara’ of human society through the works of ‘Dharma Shaastra (-Gruhya ?) and got in to Vivaha Samskara-Vidhi, as a part of ‘Vedic Marriage Ritual’ in as early period as ‘ Mahabharata’ , what could have
been the reasoning to connect ‘ a mystic (celestial) union to a mundane (Human engagement) event’ ?*

*It is not always easy to find cogent one-to-one reason for a particular practice, the pale contour of which is still present in the current rituals and rites. Vaidika Vivaaha is mundane if you mean it is on Earth between human beings. At present it is more a social function, semi-religious, with little esoteric & mystical overtones, except when a knowledgeable bridegroom likes to maintain the Agni and carry on Vedic rites, such as दर्शपूर्णमास \|\| गृह्यसूत्र do reflect considerable hidden esoteric principles in them even though RV(X.85) may not be directly traceable there (Note: I have not yet investigated this point in detail, but I vaguely recollect reference tosūryā in As'va.GS\].Butsūryā in the sense of 'wife/consort' is used in the Bhagavatha 10th book I chapter. In the Svapnavaasavadatta of Bhaasa the marriage hall in the last act is named 'सूर्यामुख-प्रासाद '.*

*My present understanding of the 'eclipse' related imagery is that the vaidika marriage is a union of Agni (female) and Soma (male) on earth as a reflection of the cosmic act. After all some Vedic texts ordain that 'humans have to do what gods do', which is a way to synchronize human activities with the cosmic rhythm. In the RV the solar eclipse is quite clear (due to enveloping darkness in the morning), but the lunar is not so direct unless we look into the number 3339 in two places; the Saucika hymns etc. Also the question has to be asked whyदर्शपूर्णमास is supposed to have been prescribed by RV also \[yajñam vyākhyāsyāmaḥ\|\|…..ṛgvedayajurvedābhyām darśapūrṇamāsau* \|\| Āpastamba-paribhāṣā-sūtra (1-4)\], even though no direct evidence can be found in the RV text, except for a few mantras from*Saucīka *hymns are prescribed. Further "reasoning" quickly demands (relative) historical perspective of RV and other Vedic texts, even to propose a working hypothesis for further investigations.

best..

RNI

  

  

  



