+++
title = "000 Trichur Rukmani"

+++
[[Trichur Rukmani	2018-03-11, 11:52:04 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/qmadgnWY4G4)]]



I am so happy that Malavi has raised some pertinent questions regarding saṁsr̥ta and saṁskr̥ti. We need to address the questions she has raised with utmost urgency before even the present generation of saṁskr̥ta scholars also pass on. Malavi has stated so vividly the pathetic state of our saṁskr̥ta bhāṣā and it is time that all of us start thinking of ways and means to keep our heritage alive. Is it possible to have dedicated scholars devote some time to run classes like what the Chinmaya Mission is doing for infants. Let us put our minds together and come up with tangible solutions.

dhanyavādāh

rukmani  

  

  

On Sun, Mar 11, 2018 at 11:24 AM, malavi narayanan \<[rukma...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >  style="color:rgb(34,34,34);font-family:arial,sans-serif;font-size:12.8px;font-style:normal;font-variant-ligatures:normal;font-variant-caps:normal;font-weight:400;letter-spacing:normal;text-align:start;text-indent:0px;text-transform:none;white-space:normal;word-spacing:0px;background-color:rgb(255,255,255);text-decoration-style:initial;text-decoration-color:initial"> >
> Respected scholars,  
> > 
> > Amidst a group of lions, it would not be very wise for one to voice > his/her thoughts, especially when he/she is not a lion/lioness. > However, being one among those who suffered considerably because of > the poor teaching methods of samskrtha in schools and colleges, I > think it would be legitimate to place before scholars my views on the > same -  
>   
> > ***CAN WE PLEASE REVIEW THE TEACHING METHODS OF SAṀSKṚTA IN SCHOOLS > AND COLLEGES . . .*** >
> At the outset, I would like to state that I have not gone > into the details of what all has already been said on this subject in > the past since I feel such things, how many ever times they are > stated, are worth the effort if the necessary changes are going to be > brought about ASAP. I am also transgressing the generally agreed > rigidity about using the first person in essays because I never > believe in listening to instructions from unknown sources. I will > listen to the*Vedas*,*Rāmāyaṇa, Bhagavadgītā*etc and try my level > best to abide by the rules that these lay down, but, am not willing at > all to listen to what man-made institutions like schools or colleges, > that too with a western background, try to impose on me. For example, > I simply do not want to make my children wear shoes and socks to > school just because the school asks me to, because it really does not > make sense to wear them in a place like Chennai, where for most of the > year,*Sūryabhagavān*is at his hottest best. The British wear shoes > and socks to school because they record a hottest temperature of 19ºC > and a coldest temperature of 5ºC; does that imply that we have to wear > the same shoes to school in a place which records a hottest > temperature of 33ºC and a coldest temperature of 25ºC, just because we > are having to use the school system that was thrust upon us by the > British at the time of colonization? Due to the heat and humidity, the > socks and shoes stink, the children’s feet get sore and it is > an*anarthaparamparā . . .*So, if you can appreciate the rebel in me, > kindly read on. >
> Schools introduce*saṁskṛta*at Class III or V generally. > The reason stated in most places is that children can > assimilate*saṁskṛta*only at the minimum age of 10 years, apparently > because it is a very complex language. However, if it is a complex > language, it would be more fruitful to introduce it as early as > possible so that the foundation itself can be strong. If it is > introduced as II language only at Class V, naturally, students > of*saṁskṛta*can reach only a lower level in the language than the > level that those who read their regional language as II language from > class I itself can achieve. Therefore, the standard achievable in > school is lesser in*saṁskṛta*when compared to other languages such > as Hindi, Tamil etc. >
> The number of students taking to*saṁskṛta*is dwindling > day by day. It will be the responsibility of the fraternity of > the*saṁskṛta*scholars to inspire students when they are > having*saṁskṛta*as a subject in school itself so that they take > to*saṁskṛta*by choice in higher education. Scholars, though they may > be involved in delving deep into the*śāstra*frontiers, should also > spend a part of their time to teach*saṁskṛta*as a language to > students because a very sound knowledge of the language is first > required to later develop the knowledge of various*śāstras*and only > very able-teachers can do so in an interest-catching manner. Let us > take up the example of the system followed in the > traditional*pāṭhaśālās.*A person who has > done*ghanānta-vedādhyayana*handles students at all levels – students > who have just started their*vedādhyayana,*those who are about to > finish*saṁhitā*, then*lakṣaṇa*and finally,*ghana*. It is not like > a graduate handles primary classes, a post graduate handles middle and > secondary classes and Ph.D holders handle high school and college. It > is only natural that a person who has gone higher up in the > education-ladder handles the*ārambhapāṭha*better than a person who > has climbed the ladder only halfway. Even if teaching for beginners by > scholars will be next to impossible, it is stated here that their > supervision is extremely essential. If we have to provide basic > training in*saṁskṛta*in school in an inspiring way, we have to > project the language as a brain-teaser and not as ‘Sanskrit Made > Easy’. Even exposing students to a bit > of*pāṇinīya-vyākaraṇa*or*navya-nyāya*will make them aware in full > magnitude of what awaits them if they pursue*saṁskṛta*in their > higher education. >
> Bitter, but it is a fact. Let us face it. Two generations > back, a person who took to modern education at least had > a*saṁskṛta*scholar for a father. So, he knew the value of what he > had failed to learn from his father and knew he had to be proud of it. > Next, his son got to see a*saṁskṛta*scholar only in his grandfather > and was not as much respectful towards the language as his father was. > Next in queue is the great-grandson who has neither seen nor heard of > the*saṁskṛta*scholar – great-grandfather and is also not in the > least bothered that a tradition has been lost . . . Let me > substantiate this. Recently, I presented a paper in*saṁskṛta*in a > National seminar and I posted a notification about the same in a > WhatsApp group comprising of my family members, where there is > generally enormous response from both youngsters and elders for > birthday wishes etc. However, only my uncles and aunts responded to my > message about the paper-presentation in*saṁskṛta*and there was > absolute silence from all of my cousins. Their silence can only be > attributed to their lack of knowledge and hence, lack of interest in > the subject, and not because they are busy in their own work, if that > were the case, they should not be active participants in birthday > wishes’ threads as well. This being the present situation, the only > way to avoid further deterioration is to take all efforts to make more > youngsters to read*saṁskṛta*to a very good level at school itself so > that they later specialise in*saṁskṛta*itself and become the > torch-bearers of our tradition tomorrow. If all*saṁskṛta*scholars of > today were to make their children also to take up*saṁskṛta*as their > main stay, it would be a great beginning.
> > The number of*vidyārthis*for*saṁskṛta*degrees is > always one among the least compared to other departments. Hence, there > are generally no new appointments in the faculty. The existing faculty > also constantly faces the danger of the department being shut down due > to alarmingly low student strength. Therefore, they decrease the > standard of the syllabus so that even mediocre students can cope with > it, thinking this may trigger some students to join the department. > This, however, results in the department’s inability to quench the > knowledge-thirst of those intellectually inclined students, though > they may be few in number. This actually means we are not giving them > the opportunity to be the best in their field. These students, in > turn, end up being mediocre teachers for the next generation and > again, what a vicious circle this is . . . This is the status in > Chennai. If it is better in the rest of India, that is heartening. >
> The concept of research is characteristic to the western > education and obviously, it does not suit the Indian*śāstra*system > very much. Most of us start reading*saṁskṛta*seriously after > secondary education (Class X) or after senior secondary education > (Class XII) or even after graduation. This means that after 5 years > (or maximum 7 years) of education in the*saṁskṛta*department, we are > expected to do research and present some original work for the Ph.D > degree. This forces scholars to take up some manuscript and do a > critical edition of it so that it can be projected as original work. > Only 20% or 30% of the Ph.D theses are of real relevance to us. Also, > this is done at a stage when their training itself in that > particular*śāstra*is not complete. The Ph.D of today is somewhat > equivalent to the*kroḍapatra*of yesteryears which was written by > scholars (in the real sense) who had read the*Vedas, kāvyapāṭha, > vyākaraṇa*(till atleast a minimum level), and then the > respective*śāstra*in all its glory. Isn’t this the stage where some > relevant and original work can be expected from a scholar? How big is > the gap between a scholar who wrote a*kroḍapatra*in the past and a > Ph.D scholar of today? >
> I tried my hand at teaching for a short period of 4 months > as lecturer for part-II*saṁskṛta*for students whose major was > science, accounts etc. I was expected to teach the*Nītiśataka*of > Bhatṛhari to a group of 60 students, half of them not having > even*akṣarābhyāsa.*The justification provided by the syllabus-setter > is thus – what are the students going to do with > basic*saṁskṛta*knowledge if we teach from the alphabets? By > reading*Nītiśataka,*they atleast learn good values, but, one > wonders, is this a value education class or a*saṁskṛta*class! The > result is that*saṁskṛta*becomes a laughing stock in front of those > students and they even lose the little respect they may have had for > the language. Teaching of the*Nītiśataka*to non-knowers of > the*saṁskṛta-akṣaras*is somewhat similar to the reading*Vedānta > (Veda+anta)*by a person who fails to satisfy the pre-requisites > mentioned in the*Vedānta*books -*adhikārī tu > vidhivadadhītavedavedāṅgatvenāpātato'dhigatākhila-vedārtho'smiñjanmani > janmāntare vā kāmyaniṣiddhavarjanapuraḥsaraṁ > nityanaimittika-prāyaścittopāsanānuṣṭhānena nirgatanikhilakalmaṣatayā > nitāntanirmalasvāntaḥ sādhana-catuṣṭayasaṁpannaḥ pramātā*\|¹ >
> Scholars are facing some friction when it comes to > submitting their thesis in*saṁskṛta-*medium. The faculty, having the > best interests of the students in heart, advise students to pen their > thesis in English, so that it will have better reach. Here, I argue > that to a person who cannot comprehend the*saṁskṛta*language, of > what relevance is the content of a PhD thesis about*saṁskṛta*going > to be for him? Instead of we compromising for his sake and writing our > thesis in English, let us write in*saṁskṛta*alone; let him > read*saṁskṛta*first and then read and enjoy the thesis. >
> The reason for writing this article in English instead > of*saṁskṛta*, though seemingly ironical to what was said above, is > this - better reach, even among*saṁskṛta*students and teachers. The > following incident will provide enough testimony to the fact that > among those holding various degrees in*saṁskṛta,*there are many who > do not know to write or speak properly in*saṁskṛta.*I recently > attended an interview for a prestigious fellowship > in*saṁskṛta.*There, a student who also attended the interview was > beside herself with fury because the judges asked her to speak > in*saṁskṛta.*She seemingly replied to them that only*Hindī*showed > her the way to*saṁskṛta*, so, she will speak only in*Hindī*and not > in*saṁskṛta*. Is her inability to speak in*saṁskṛta*being feigned > as her devotion to*Hindī*here? On a positive note, the same judges > just saw that another student’s synopsis was written in*saṁskṛta*and > said ‘*Saṁskṛtam, śobhanam!’*and maybe this was instrumental in her > selection for the fellowship. Kudos to the judges who gave so much > weightage to the paper being penned in*saṁskṛta.*
> >  style="color:rgb(34,34,34);font-family:arial,sans-serif;font-size:12.8px;font-style:normal;font-variant-ligatures:normal;font-variant-caps:normal;font-weight:400;letter-spacing:normal;text-align:start;text-indent:0px;text-transform:none;white-space:normal;word-spacing:0px;background-color:rgb(255,255,255);text-decoration-style:initial;text-decoration-color:initial;border-width:medium medium 1pt;border-style:none none solid;border-color:currentcolor currentcolor windowtext;padding:0cm 0cm 1pt"> >
> Even an Indian toddler is trained nowadays to say there > are 26 alphabets in English and rhymes are taught even to new-borns > and mothers are talking to children in English. Contrastingly, the son > of a*saṁskṛta*scholar is scratching his head when asked how many > alphabets are there in*saṁskṛta.*Though many prestigious > institutions are taking*saṁskṛta-*studies forward in a highly > accelerated manner in India, blood boils when the amount of >
> 
> > 1 –*Vedāntasāra > –*[https://archive.org/details/vedantasaraofsad00sada](https://archive.org/details/vedantasaraofsad00sada)- > page 122 >
> degradation in*saṁskṛta-*studies in India post-independence is > considered. >
> To conclude, it is stated here that a language does not > stop with just being a medium of communication. It shapes up our > thinking faculty, general biology (because of the articulation > of*akṣaras*characteristic to that language), food, culture (through > its literature) etc. For example, teaching more of English exposes > children to words like cookies, cakes and chocolates right from a > small age. Hence, they constantly pesture us to buy cakes and > chocolates and they never ask for*murukku*(South-Indian savoury) > or*laddoo*with such adamancy. Indians, or rather schools (because > they ultimately mould the next generation) should teach*saṁskṛta*or > a regional language with the vigour that is currently employed for > English. English has to be compulsorily taught to a very good level > for the sake of worldly competence, but, what is important here is > that students should be told that they are reading English only as a > consequence of the British colonisation. They cannot survive in the > world without English knowledge, but, it is not at all necessary to > develop a passion for the language (tolerance is enough), whereas, > there is an absolute necessity to develop a great passion > for*saṁskṛta*or a regional language. Reading*saṁskṛta*or regional > language as the I language is extremely essential for school students; > reading mathematics or science in regional language or*saṁskṛta*will > not be that fruitful as it will be cumbersome to create the syllabus > and textbooks. Also, it will not have much value in the outside world. > On the other hand, reading mathematics or science in English medium > will be enough to gather knowledge of English as a language too. There > is no necessity to read it separately as a language, and that too, as > the I language. >
> Signing off with the hope that all institutions will > be*saṁskṛta-kendras*imparting*saṁskṛta*knowledge (not saanskriT – > all students and teachers are requested to use the correct > pronounciation) in the highest level as was the case before the > British colonisation . . .
> >   
> > 
> > Regards, >
> 
> > 
> > Dr. Malavi N >
> 
> > 
> > --  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+unsubscribe@googlegroups.com]().  
> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.  
> > 
> > 
> > 

  

