+++
title = "012 R. Narayana iyengar"

+++
[[R. Narayana iyengar	2012-05-30, 12:23:24 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/EUxt-v6oYSs)]]



Thanks to all the scholars who have contributed to my query. I always wanted to know the intricacies of नञ्समास but hesitant to ask! As I understand, technically the wordअनास्तिकः may mean either \[na
aastikah\] or \[na naastikah\] actually a peculiar contradiction, like zero being neither negative nor positive!From the example of Dr.Bhat from MBh it is quite clear the word should mean only आस्तिकः based on the context of the verse.



From Dr. Bhattacharya's post I gather that the words aastikah and naastikah are derived separately based on 'asti' and 'naasti'. In this PaNinian formulationpossible confusion is minimized. Perhaps Dr.DB wanted to refer to अनास्तिकः श्रद्दधानः as PRE-PaaNinian and not post-P. Am I right? Actually word modulations or altered meanings provide a chronological basis for the evolution of Indian culture.



Since I am not a mainstream Sanskritist members may wonder why I brought up this question. This is due to my quest for scientific thoughts and models in ancient India. There are many words in ancient literaturestarting with अ. Some of these aredue to combinatioin withna\~. For example in the Rigveda Samhita "atithih" would essentially mean "na\~ +tithi:" a guest;onewho comes without appointment. The interesting result of suchanalysis is the inference that the word 'tithi' should have been in wide popular usage eventhough RV does not use the word "tithi:" directly.



But not all ofsuch wordshave to be the negation of the second part of the word. again for example in RV "asura:" is not the negation of "sura:" but apparently in later literature it is interpreted as so.
Iwould like toknow whether there is any detailed study of such word formations.



best regards



RN Iyengar



On May 28, 12:33 pm, Di

pak Bhattacharya \<[dbhattacharya200...@yahoo.com]()\> wrote:  
\> Two negatives make a positive - true. But this usage  
  

2012/5/26 Dipak Bhattacharya \<[dbhattach...@yahoo.com]()\>  



