+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2011-11-20, 04:59:11 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/AhhRFt1g1DI)]]



<http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.com/2011/11/fellowship-announcement-gandhari-text.html>

  

## 19.11.11

### Fellowship announcement: Gandhari text studies, at University of Washington

From: Richard Salomon  
  
Dear Colleagues,  
  
Please bring the announcement of the new Dhammachai  
Scholarship for Gandhari Studies at the University  
of Washington to the attention of your students or  
other interested parties.  
  
  
Please also note that to be eligible for the scholar-  
ship next year, students must apply to the graduate  
program in Buddhist Studies in the Department of  
Asian Languages and Literature, University of  
Washington, by December 15, 2011.  
  
  
  
Thanks,  
  
Richard Salomon  
  
  
  
70th Dhammachai Scholarship for Gāndhārī Studies  
  
at the University of Washington  
  
  
  
Description of the Fellowship  
  
The Department of Asian Languages and Literature,  
University of Washington (Seattle WA) announces  
the inception of the 70th Dhammachai Scholarship,  
sponsored by the Dhammachai International Research  
Institute. This scholarship will be offered to a  
qualified applicant to the graduate program in  
Buddhist Studies in the Department of Asian  
Languages and Literature whose studies will  
focus on research on Buddhist texts in Gāndhārī  
under the auspices of the department's Early  
Buddhist Manuscripts Project. The scholarship  
will offer up to five years of full support,  
conditional on satisfactory annual progress.  
  
The Early Buddhist Manuscripts Project  
  
  
The Early Buddhist Manuscripts Project was founded  
in 1996 to promote the study and publication of  
newly discovered Buddhist manuscripts in the  
Gāndhārī language, dating from the first century  
b.c.e. to the third century c.e. The manuscripts  
contain a wide variety of Buddhist texts and  
genres including sūtra, abhidharma, avadāna,  
commentaries and scholastic treatises. For  
further information, please see the project's  
website at:  
.  
  
70th Dhammachai Scholarship  
  
Prerequisites for the Scholarship  
  
The holder of the 70th Dhammachai Scholarship  
will be expected to pursue research on one or  
more of the unpublished Gāndhārī manuscripts,  
with a view to preparing a scholarly edition  
and translation. The holder will need to have  
a suitable background in Buddhist Studies and  
one or more of the relevant languages, including  
Sanskrit, Pāli, and Chinese. Previous knowledge  
of the Gāndhārī language is not required, but  
will be a focus of the awardee's studies in the  
first few years in the program.  
  
Application procedure  
  
Applicants for the scholarship will submit a  
standard application to the Graduate School of  
the University of Washington (due December 15,  
2011), designating the graduate program in  
Buddhist Studies in the Department of Asian  
Languages and Literature (<http://depts.washington.edu/asianll/home/prospective_grad.html#app>).  
  
In addition, they must separately submit an  
application for the 70th Dhammachai  
Scholarship, due on January 15, 2012.  
Application forms will be found at: <http://depts.washington.edu/asianll/downloads/Application%20form%20EBMP.docx>  
  
  
Richard Salomon  
University of Washington

  

Florida International University, Religious Studies  
  
Bhagwan Mahavir Professor of Jain Studies  
  
  
Institution Type: College / University  
Location:Florida, United States  
Position: Tenure Track Faculty  
  
  
Jain Studies  
  
FIU is a multi-campus public research university  
located inMiami, a vibrant, international city.  
FIU offers more than 180 baccalaureate, masters,  
professional, and doctoral degree programs to  
over 46,000 students. As one of South Florida’s  
anchor institutions, FIU is worlds ahead in its  
local and global engagement and is committed to  
finding solutions to the most challenging problems  
of our times.  
  
The Department of Religious Studies is pleased  
to announce an open rank search for the Bhagwan  
Mahavir Professor of Jain Studies. Candidates  
must hold a Ph.D. in Religious Studies or other  
appropriate field with a demonstrable record of  
teaching excellence at the college or university  
level as well as be able to mentor graduate  
students. Candidates must be proficient in  
English and have knowledge of at least one  
language ofIndia, and have published works on  
Jainism and other religions of India, pursue a  
substantial research agenda, and should have  
significant field experience in India. The  
professor will teach a range of courses about  
the religions of India in general and Jainism  
in particular, and background in the field of  
religious studies and knowledge of world religions  
is desirable. The professor will work closely  
with the Jain Educational and Research Foundation,  
and will organize lectures and symposia. She or  
he will also oversee and develop exchange  
programs in India, including summer study  
programs and tours. The department, with nine  
full time members, offers B.A. and M.A. degrees  
and is located within FIU’s School of International  
and Public Affairs (SIPA).  
  
Applications should be made online at  
[https://www.fiujobs.org](https://www.fiujobs.org/).  
Look for Open Rank Professor: Jainism, under the  
Religious Studies Department. Attach letter of  
application, CV, and writing sample to online  
application. The writing sample can be either  
a published article or a thesis chapter. FIU  
is an urban Research-Extensive institution  
with substantial research expectations of its  
faculty. In addition, send three letters of  
reference, transcripts and course syllabi to  
Professor Andrea Seidel, Bhagwan Mahavir Search  
Committee Chair, DM 320C,Florida International  
University,Miami, Florida 33199. Applications  
will be accepted until the position is filled;  
review of applications will begin 12/31.  
Send inquiries to:[sei...@fiu.edu]().  
  
FIU is a member of the State University System  
of Florida and is an Equal Opportunity, Equal  
Access Affirmative Action Employer.  
  
  
  
Contact: Professor Andrea Seidel  
[sei...@fiu.edu]()  
  
  
Website:[www.fiu.edu](http://www.fiu.edu/)  
Primary Category: Religious Studies and Theology  
  
Secondary Categories: None  
Posting Date:11/18/2011  
Closing Date12/31/2011  
  

  

--  

Kalyanaraman

  

> 
> > 
> > [Indus script cipher: Hieroglyphs of Indian linguistic area > (2010)](http://tinyurl.com/cpj7bqs) >
> 
> > 
> > Member, Action Committee Against Corruption in India (ACACI) >
> 
> > 

  

  

