+++
title = "004 Dr. Shashibala"

+++
[[Dr. Shashibala	2017-04-18, 19:03:57 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/aRIKJlVCOuY)]]



Kindly let me if there is any sthalapurana about Kailashnath temple in Ellora.

  

  

Sent from Samsung Mobile

  
  

-------- Original message --------

From: Mamata Dash

Date:18/04/2017 3:03 PM (GMT+05:30)

To: [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()

Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Re: Translations of Koyil Puranam

  

There are a number of Sthalapuranas available in Manuscript form and most on many sacred places of South. If these sthala puranas are printed, includuing the literary wealth some Historical aspects also will be high lighted.  

  

On Mon, Apr 17, 2017 at 10:44 AM, ajit.gargeshwari \<[ajit.gar...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> > Chidambra Mahatyam Sivaraman E.A. Published by Bharatiya Vidya > Bhavan  
> *Koyil Puranam is a part of* Chidambra Mahatyam  
> I donot know if a section of this Mahatyam has been translated > independently into English or Hindi.  
> Regards  
> Ajit Gargeshwari  
>   
>   
> On Monday, 17 April 2017 10:22:04 UTC+5:30, Nityanand Misra wrote: >
> > 
> > > > Dear list > > > > 
> > > >   
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > In his essay *The Dance of Siva*, Ananda Coomaraswamy narrates a > > legend from the *Koyil Puranam* > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > >   
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > <https://archive.org/stream/danceofsivafourt00coomiala#page/56/mode/2up>  
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > >   
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > I would like to read a translation of the Koil Purana. Are there any > > reliable English/Hindi translations? > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > >   
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Thanks, Nityananda > > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> > --  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+unsubscribe@googlegroups.com]().  
> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.  

  

--  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  

To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().



