+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-10-16, 16:36:54 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/k1q3fC-__qI)]]



Position(s): Cultural Anthropology, Assistant Professor (tenure-track) and Instructor, Loyola University Chicago

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

  

Loyola University - Chicago, Anthropology

Assistant Professor and Instructor in Cultural Anthropology

Institution Type: College / University

Location: United States

Position: Assistant Professor, Instructor

  

  

Assistant Professor in Cultural Anthropology

  

Loyola University Chicago, College of Arts and Sciences, Department of Anthropology invites applications for a full-time, tenure-track position at the rank of Assistant Professor in cultural anthropology, beginning August 2011 and pendingfinal budget approval. This search seeks candidates with training and experience in applied cultural anthropology. The department serves 130 to 160 majors and is a broad and substantial contributor to the University Core Curriculum and Interdisciplinary Programs. For more details about the department, visit its website at <http://www.luc.edu/anthropology>. Teaching responsibilities include required introductory and core undergraduate courses, ethnographic area courses, as well as advanced undergraduate courses in applied aspects of cultural anthropology. The department strongly encourages a holistic approach to anthropology and the engagement of undergraduates in on-going research and community service. Candidates who can complement the established expertise within the department are preferred. Requirements include a Ph.D. (in-hand), an active and successful research agenda, exceptional enthusiasm for and commitment to undergraduate teaching, and dedication to program development. Applicants should submit, by December 15, 2010, a current Curriculum Vitae, a teaching statement/research agenda, a letter of interest, and the names of three references to [www.careers.luc.edu](http://www.careers.luc.edu). Additional materials related to teaching experiences and qualifications and samples of scholarly publications should be sent to: Dr. Daniel Amick, Ph.D., Chair, Department of Anthropology, Loyola University Chicago, 1032 W. Sheridan Rd., Chicago, IL 60660. Review of applications will begin on December 16, 2010 and continue until the position is filled. Loyola University Chicago, Chicago's Jesuit Catholic University, is an Equal Opportunity/ Affirmative Action employer with a strong commitment to diversifying its faculty. Applications from women and minority candidates are especially encouraged.

  

Instructor in Cultural Anthropology

  

Loyola University Chicago, College of Arts and Sciences, Department of Anthropology invites applications for a full-time, three-year, non-tenure-track instructor position in cultural anthropology to begin August 2011; this position is subject to final budget approval. We seek candidates who are engaged in teaching and with training and experience in environmental anthropology, global human ecology, and applied anthropology. The Anthropology Department serves 130-160 majors and is a substantial contributor to the University Core Curriculum and Interdisciplinary Programs in Environmental Studies/Sciences and International Studies. For more details about the department, visit its website at <http://www.luc.edu/anthropology>. Teaching responsibilities include at least 5 sections per year in the Core Curriculum and up to 2 sections per year to meet major requirements and teach other courses cross-listed in anthropology and the Environmental Studies Program. The department strongly encourages the adoption of a holistic approach to anthropology, the development of experiential learning initiatives, and the engagement of undergraduates in on-going research and community service. Candidates who can complement the established expertise within the department are preferred. Requirements include a Ph.D. (in-hand), an exceptional enthusiasm for and commitment to undergraduate teaching, and a dedication to student development. Applicants should submit, by December 15, 2010, a current Curriculum Vitae, a teaching statement, a letter of interest, and the names of three references to [www.careers.luc.edu](http://www.careers.luc.edu). Additional materials related to teaching experiences and qualifications and samples of scholarly publications should be sent to: Dr. James Calcagno, Ph.D., Search Committee Chair, Department of Anthropology, Loyola University Chicago, 1032 W. Sheridan Rd., Chicago, IL 60660. Review of applications will begin on December 16, 2010 and continue until the position is filled. Loyola University Chicago, Chicago's Jesuit Catholic University, is an Equal Opportunity/ Affirmative Action employer with a strong commitment to diversifying its faculty. Applications from women and minority candidates are especially encouraged.

  

  

Contact: Daniel S. Amick, Chair, Department of Anthropology, Loyola University Chicago, 1032 W. Sheridan Rd., Chicago, IL 60660

  

Website: <http://www.luc.edu/anthropology/>

Primary Category: Anthropology

  

Secondary Categories: None

Posting Date: 10/15/2010

Closing Date 12/15/2010

  

Position: History of modern religious and political processes (view from one or several extra-european contexts), Full Professor, Universite de Lausanne, Suisse, IRCM

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

  

Universite de Lausanne, Suisse, IRCM

Professor, History of modern religious and political processes (view from one or several extra-european contexts)

  

Institution Type:   College / University

Location:   Switzerland

Position:   Full Professor

  

  

La Faculte de theologie et de sciences des religions de l'Universite de Lausanne met au concours un poste de

  

Professeur ordinaire ou Professeur assistant en prtitularisation conditionnelle au rang de professeur ordinaire

  

en Histoire des processus politico-religieux modernes (vue partir d'un ou de plusieurs contextes extra-europens)

  

Entree en fonction:  01.04.2011 ou date a convenir

Taux d'activite:  100%

Lieu de travail:  Lausanne (Dorigny)

Profil souhait:

\- Doctorat en histoire ou sciences des religions, anthropologie, histoire, ou titre juge equivalent;

\- connaissance et pratique des mthodes historiques;

\- connaissance des approches anthropologiques;

\- connaissance approfondie d'un contexte extra-europeen;

\- competence dans la problematique des rapports du politique et du religieux;

\- sensibilite au comparatisme;

\- intret pour un questionnement et une mise en perspective de type theorique et problematisant, en particulier connaissance des theories issues des "colonial studies";

\- activit de recherche et publications scientifiques dans plusieurs des champs mentionns;

\- bonne integration dans les reseaux scientifiques internationaux.

Description des taches:

\- enseignements de niveau Bachelor et Master en sciences des religions, ainsi que dans diffrents types de cours de service;

\- recherches a conduire dans le champ concerne;

\- directions de theses et participation aux enseignements postgrades;

\- capacit gerer un institut.

  

Les cours sont donnes en francais principalement (sauf exception possible, en anglais, la premire annee).

  

Dossier de candidature:

Compos d'une lettre de motivation, d'un CV, d'une liste des publications et d'une copie des titres), il est faire parvenir en 10 exemplaires, avec 2 exemplaires des principales publications au Prof. Pierre Gisel, Doyen de la Faculte de theologie et de sciences des religions, Batiment Anthropole, Quartier Unil-Dorigny, CH-1015 Lausanne. Un exemplaire en version electronique de la lettre, du CV et de la liste des publications devra conjointement etre envoye a l'adresse courriel: [Marit...@unil.ch]()

  

Delai de candidature: 15.12.2010

Renseignements :

Professeur Pierre Gisel, Doyen de la FTSR, [Pierre...@unil.ch]()

Professeur Jacques Ehrenfreund, Directeur de l'IRCM, [Jacques.E...@unil.ch]()

Maritza Erb, Administratrice de la FTSR, [Marit...@unil.ch]()

  

Soucieuse de promouvoir l'acces des femmes a la carriere acadmique, l'Universite encourage les candidatures feminines.

Faculte de thologie et de sciences des religions (FTSR)

<http://www.unil.ch/FTSR/>

IRCM

<http://www.unil.ch/ircm>

  

Rfrence no:  1869

Annonce du:  11.10.2010

  

Contact:  [Pierre...@unil.ch]()

[Jacques.E...@unil.ch]()

[Marit...@unil.ch]()

Website:  [www.unil.ch/ircm](http://www.unil.ch/ircm)

  

Primary Category:  Anthropology

  

Secondary Categories:  Contemporary History

  

Posting Date:  10/14/2010

Closing Date  12/15/2010

