+++
title = "037 R. N. iyengar"

+++
[[R. N. iyengar	2021-08-26, 10:56:27 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/m0WsHOqu39M)]]



Respected Founders of BVP: Please stand up!

  

I fully agree with Ajit. Calling for ex post facto expulsion after Prof.MD has left, is ridiculous to say the least. Has BVP been turned into a fundamentalist indeological group where only one type of ideas will be discussed as approved by some self appointed people?

I have received quite a few messages in my personal mail box also. I wrote in another thread "..... *What has Krishna Bhakti to do with
problems about academics organizing conferences? We all know who writes on Krishna Bhakti. If one has the scholarship to criticize his 1000 verses on traditional lines one can do so. But passing sarcastic and hateful judgements on the person is not Hindu Dharma. This calls for a proper apology on the part of Sri Vishal Agarwal."* Vishal has personally responded to me and I will not go into that.

All said and done, Vishal Agarwal for reasons best known to him chose the **wrong place** and time to take revenge on a well known academician after his retirement. Many members of BVP are upset by this incident.
If some one leaves the forum it is a personal choice. I have nothing to say on that. But to use the BVP forum for settling old scores and then rationalizing it by taking indirect support from others is unethical. I still believe Vishal should apologize to BVP, for sullying the atmosphere here.

If BVP becomes political the time is not far away for the filter

  

नीरक्षीरविवेके तु हंसोहंसः बको बकः॥

  

Thanks

  

RN Iyengar



