+++
title = "011 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2012-01-27, 11:52:01 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/zS23nECkDwY)]]



Salutations to scholars. Sri Namboodiri comes out only with a newmeaning of the word अम्धं but is silent on how it is applied int the shloka. Indeed none of the scholars have thrown light on the अन्वय in the shloka. The original question was about *punarukti*. all the solutions have added to the problem rather than solving it, since the suggestions ignore that it is not a problem of *andhatamas* as presumed by some of them.



Indeed the *Ishavasya* uses *andhatamas* not in one verse but three verses (3,9& 12)where *andha* and *tamas* are used together (saMkRutaM), indicating the adjective-subtantive relationship. They also forget the rule that *Bhinnalinganaam saaMkaryaM* *na kuryaaditi* (*kRuto&tra bhinnalingaanaam naikashesho na saMkaraH - amarakosha*). But the usage in the shloka in question is not of *andhatamas*, as wrongly presumed, but of *andha-atitamas*. Namboodiri is resolute that *tamas* is in accusative and ignores that it may be nominative also.



By tearing the beutiful shloka into grammatical fragments, the splendid *bhaavaartha* and its beauty is totally lost; the unity of expression is lost. Grammer is only a tool, not the target.



Taking a holistic approach, I present the same, as seen by me; so that others may enjoy that, which is highy figurative (*virodhabhaasaalankaara*). *bhramatatitamo vedasUryaHsameShaaM andhaM chiCcheda athava andham sameshaam* *chiCcheda*. Here the alankara is that *atitamaH aj\~jnaanaaMdhaM chiCcheda* and *Bramat bhrantyaMdhaM chiCcheda*. Besides Vedas are glorified in two ways - *vedaH eva sUryaH aj\~jnaanaaMdhakaaranaashakaH iti, avyaktaatimavyaktavedasUryayorabhedadarshanaacca vedaantargataadvaitadarshanaat.*



Let Namboodiri and others parse the whole sholka as a unit; and not give the dictionary meaning of a word therein; and not compare that with other applications with a different context and a different purpose. Indeed I consider that the very purpose of Sri Rajkumar Mishra's question was to elicit the beauty of the citation.

s.r.krishna murthy



  
  


2012/1/25 vishnu namboodiri k \<[ushavis...@gmail.com]()\>



