+++
title = "018 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2012-01-30, 15:17:32 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/zS23nECkDwY)]]



My dear Sir, I knew you had used 'blindening'; I still used 'blinding' because English language does not have the form 'blindening'. Yet I have gathered from your usage that you want to convey the causative sense. In English language, there are no separate forms for causatives; except a few like wake-awaken. So 'blind', though commonly adjective, is also used as a verb without addition of any suffix.



But what i wanted you to explain is the formation of the word brama-tati-tama; will you please explain how the three words are compounded, what meaning is attached to each part; particularly 'thathi' in your compound (समास), preferably with other citations showing how it is used by whom and where; so that it wil become highly useful.



I see below that Dr. P.Ramanujam has taken labourious pains to explain the philosophy of taithireeya samhita. But my query is limited to the specific annotation of the phrase भ्रमततितमः w.r.t. the context; and how it is resolved. Mr. Namboodiri is very vague for a grammarian.Will Dr. Ramanujam or somebody else kindly elucidate?Because, I consider that the verse draws its essential meaning from the interpretation of the phrase. I, in my limited exposure, have not come across that phrase and that usage that Mr. Namboodiri and Mr. Subramanyam are attaching thereto.



The original question was one of the combination of AndhaM tamaH; and that was rightlyexplained as one of the degress of comparison.But now it is the question of AndhaM brama-tati-tamaH, and not AndhaM tamaH, as used in the Ishavasya (3,9,12) or the late Jagadguru Shankarachaarya of Sringeri as quoted by Mr.VS.



Since both VS and Namboodiri have held me patently wrong in my interpretation of the verse, I am entitled to know from themhow exactly they parse the words and how they resolve the compound, and what are their rules of interpretation. Both of them are brushing off the question harping only on *AndhaM tamaH* when I am asking about *AndhaM brama-tati-tamaH.* I do not know why Dr. H.N.Bhat and Sri S. Jagannath are silent on this issue. I shall be obliged to them or anybody else who answer to the point.

s.r.krishna murthy.



  
  


2012/1/30 vishnu namboodiri k \<[ushavis...@gmail.com]()\>



