+++
title = "027 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2012-02-09, 13:22:05 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/zS23nECkDwY)]]



Thanks to Dr. Ramanujam and all the scholars. I was under the impression thatतति

stands for number (per V.G.Apte) and bhramaa is only a quantity. However I stand corrected on that count; thattati stands for both number and quantity.



However, this interpretation apparently derogates the meaning to ordinary prosaic level, in the absence of additional sections of the verse. Sun dispels darkness is an axiomatic truth, which fits into a primary text; not to the level of kaavya. kaavya is the work of a kavi.

who is a kavi? **कमिति ब्रह्म॥ कं वेदयतीति कविः****॥** Furthermore, in the context of Indian epics, the word Kavi does not connote a poet like Kalidasa or Shakespeare. The word refers to a seer. The Mundakopanishad refers to*tadetat satyaM mantreShukarmaaNi kavayo yanyapashyantaani tretaayaaM bahudha santataani*(therefore poets, who realized the Truth inherent in the mantras); from which it is quite apparent, that poet is a seer of Truth and a relator of Truth6. The great Shankaracharya interprets the word Kavaiah **MüuÉrÉ**Èas**uÉÍxÉ¸ÉSrÉÈ qÉåkÉÉÌuÉlÉÈ** (intellectuals like Vasistha). By the example of Vasistha, who is a famous Brahmagnani (one who has known Brahman), it is evident that the word kavi (poet) means a Brahmagnani, the omniscient, the all knowing, Sarvagna. These are all attributes of God. Indeed God is also known by the appellation kavi (poet) as the giver of Vedas.



In this context, I would request the scholars particularly Dr. H.N.Bhat the following.





1. I interpreted the verse such that the question of punarukti did not arise.

2. Sri V.S. linked ***andham*** and ***tamaH***, though in the verse they are separated by ***Bhramatati***.

3. SrimallalitalaalitaH also took up that link, and supported it quoting Ishavasya M.3.

4. I pointed out that not only in M.3 but also in M.9 and M.12, ***andham tamaH*** are used in conjunction; but the question I raised was specifically whether **andhaM *bhramatati*tamaH** would be appropriate; because ***ati*** which is the ultimate is not supposed to take adjectives; just as perfect does not brook any adjectives of degree, as less perfect, more perfect, ideally perfect, etc. which derogate the meaning and therefore become redundant.

5. When the scholars persisted only in harping on ***andham*** and ***tamaH***, I requested them to consider the whole sentence as one unit and give the parsing so that the meaning would become cognizant.

6. Then, one scholar explained that the intervening phrase ***bhramatati*** also is an adjective of **tamaH** and showed the resoulution of the compound as **bhramaa + tati = bhramatati**.



Under these expositions, I request them to explain how **bhramaa + tati = bharmatati;** how **the long ending of bhramaa gets shortened into bhrama. I can quote umpteen examples** wherein the long **aa** does not get shortened on compounding.



your inquisitively,

s.r.krishna murthy.











2012/1/30 V Subrahmanian \<[v.subra...@gmail.com]()\>  





