+++
title = "003 Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)	2015-06-30, 20:42:28 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/hbGgta-vxc0)]]



Namaste



1. Thank you Sivasenani for this post, clarifying the difference between the traditional Sayana interpretation (used in limited circles of tradition, who in are deeply stuck to the past) and ‘ out of the box’ interpreters ( used widely in academia, the ‘ nutanaih kavibhih’.



 I want to draw focused attention to the understanding provided by Sayana on the word \< जनेषु > and \< युवतयः \> , in this context, which most likely gets overlooked in these posts. This needs a supplemental clarification on ‘How Sayana seems to have approached explaining meaning of Vedas’. This may also help in seeing a way to
build a common bridge of understanding of text that Wilson might have carried from Sayana.



2**. Meaning of \<** **जनेषु > according to Sayana** : \< जनेषु जनपदेषु सर्वदेशेषु विरोचमानं विशेषेण दीप्यमानम्। बहूनामुपकारकमित्यर्थः\> - That which is uniquely glorified at
UNIVERSALLY ( Janapada = place where people habitat, village, cities ; Sarva-desheshu = In all Nations, transcending the boundaries of a specific village –community – state, nation) ; Why is it glorified ?
Because it is USEFUL FOR MANY.



**Meaning of \< जनेषु > according to H H Wilson (given translation**): \< *universally renowned, shining among men>*

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

**Meaning of \< युवतयः > according to Sayana** : युवतयो नित्यतरुण्यः जरमरणरहिता इत्यर्थः . The translation jump from \< young eternally youthful damsel> seems to be not desirable in the Yajna context; and the alternate relevant meaning provided in terms of directions, fingers etc;. And this forces further context-constructed interpretations of the words as \< गर्भं मेघेषु गर्भरूपेणान्तर्वर्तमानं \> .



**Meaning of \< युवतयः > according to H H Wilson (given translation)**: Wilson uses the \< *youthful* \> part and seems to refrain from making the \< Gender specific observation as Young ladies of eternal charm, and eternal youth>.





3. By invoking ‘pada-patha’ of the ‘samhita’, you have provided a useful hint to the system used by ‘Sayana’ in writing the Veda-Bhashya, in a post-Vedanta glorification period. 



Traditional Sayana commentary , as explained in the opening section of Rig-Bhashya bhomikaa provides Sayanas reasoned way in Explaining
‘Vedartha’ in three ways as (i) the purpose (ii) relevance and (iii) application of Veda in a Yajna context’.



For this Sayana uses his reference tool set : Rule base provided in Six Vedangas, Voice tradition continuity in Ashta vikruti PAtha, and Application of Veda in Yajna context as Yajnika system ( Poorva meemaamsaa system as different from the uttara meemaamsaa / Vedanta approach). This is different from the ‘Prasthana-Traya’ construction of ‘Vedanta as Vedartha’ by the Acharyas.



This traditional frame for approaching ‘Vedartha’ – Meaning of Veda,
is resurrected during the period ( circa 1387 / Vijayanagara empire period), a historic time window of ‘Post Vedanta Glory ( Acharya Madhva: 1238–1317 CE), ) and Pre-Colonial Academics (Rigveda was edited by Max Müller 1823-1900. ) The effort of Sayana seems to be one of making ‘Samanvaya’ of ‘ Jnana (Brahma) and Karma (Yajna) ’ margas in relation to Veda. This is the key from the Practical Brahminical traditions called ‘ Brahma-Karma’ , ‘Brahma-Yajna’ and come from the Shrauta and Gruhya sutra sources ( a resource trashed by many academics as relics of an ancient community practice, with no relevance for the current period).



But this ‘relic’ still stays and says what is the valid key to understand and practice Vedas. The practice of articulate stating of ‘ Gotra-Sutra Identity’ in ‘ Saluting the elders (abhivadana), the ‘
Samskara karma vidhi- samkalpa’ is a live tradition. The debate and damage caused by the stigma attached to the vedic vocabulary ‘ Varna –Jati –Kula’ associated with these practices due to limitations of translation and prejudice are to be deliberated separately. 



Summing up, the Sayana Traditional approach, the basis of many traditional rituals and rites of passage (samskaras) is different from the three prevalent and popular approaches, namely:



(i) the pale of ‘ literal word meaning derived summary of a Veda (albeit ignoring the basics of grammar of language of the document). Veda is different from laukika – Bhashaa – Kavya sahitya). 



(ii) ‘ Esoteric glossing over the meaning of the words to metaphysical realm’ as symbolism, which at its best can take away the ‘ literal meaning negativity’ to substitute an ‘ elated and elevated feel from an esoteric plane’, ; and at its worst could be the fanciful imagination of the author. (anantaartha vai vedah) 



(iii) lay understanding and explanation of Veda –mantra as used in social customs and practices (Samskara –Pooja –Vrata paddhati) as Viniyoga.



Therefore, when the meaning of a ‘Veda-Mantra’ is to be invoked, lot more caution needs to be exercised, beyond historical record referencing.





Thak you.



Regards

BVK Sastry



------------------------------------------------------------------------

No virus found in this message.  
Checked by AVG - [www.avg.com](http://www.avg.com)  
Version: 2015.0.6037 / Virus Database: 4365/10127 - Release Date: 06/30/15

