+++
title = "033 R. N. iyengar"

+++
[[R. N. iyengar	2016-03-12, 12:05:43 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/Ka6JkU5pt1s)]]



Dear Prof.Sadasiva Murty Garu,

Namaste. Honoured to receive a query from a scholar of your stature. I don't think I can enlighten such a learned person as your good self.

  

I give my understanding which you may please correct and improve further. The main purpose of "accepting Jyotisha as a Vedanga" is time keeping for carrying out various Vedic rites and to further quantify some of the concepts about Time which are qualitatively or allegorically sated already in the Vedic Texts (that are known to us in the present day). The first part is stated explicitly in the VJ of Lagadha. Even within Vedic texts we find references to 'Time" both abstract and concrete and its characterization and measurement  

सूर्यो योनिः कालस्य तस्यैतद्रूपं यन्निमेषादि कालात् संभूतम् ........(Mai.Aranyaka 6.14). Another reference has been pointed out by Dr.Ramanujan in his recent post.

In the Taittiriya Brahmana (1.5.2) there is reference to auspiciousness of 'specific time intervals' यत्पुण्यं नक्षत्रं तद्बट्कुर्वीत ....

This is about observation of visibility interval of nakshatra in the East before sunrise. The evolution of observational astronomy "of making marks" (that is in the technical sense of tools for such observation; not just looking at sky) can be traced to this mantra. Bhatta Bhaskara explains the method briefly in his commentary. VJ's observational statement of year start(Udagayana) from the beginning of Dhanishtha is about 500 years later than the statement in Mai.Aranyaka, which gives Dhanishtaardha for this position of Sun. Hence, in my humble opinion the following points emerge as the main purpose for development of Jyoutisha as Vedanga:

  

1\. Fixing time: Year, Rtu, months, tithi, nakshatra, calendar (Time with ruupa that is form)

2\. Knowledge of periods prescribed by vedas and other Vedangas for Vaidika Karma. This became 'Muhuurta-bhaaga'

3\. To contrast the above with the Abstract Timeas Brahman; कालं ब्रह्मेत्युपासीत (मै. आ )

4\. Indicating that the Uttarayana positionof Sun (shortest day) with reference to the visible but changing nakshatra-part as the Key for maintaining the correct आनुपूर्वी or chronology of the Vedic tradition.

  

with warm regards

  

RN Iyengar



