+++
title = "037 Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)	2016-03-12, 21:18:03 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/Ka6JkU5pt1s)]]



Namaste



On the specific point \< Jyotisha as a Vedanga> : and the quote from Professor Rani Sadashivamurthy where the Vedic Samskruth word ‘Bilma’ is mentioned.



My understanding of the current scenario on ‘ Why Jyotisha as a Vedanga evolved’’ ( Or is it Vedanga- *Jyotishya ? - linked to the word ‘Tishya’ for the Nakshatra ??!)* 



(Note: Please treat this as an ‘ Alternate View / Personal opinion shared ’. The subject needs to be ‘ Researched and Widely debated’ to clear the cloud and smoke surrounding the Practice of ‘Astrology’ as ‘sooth saying superstition and magical tribal practices to swindle gullible ’. This could be worth holding a National / International Conference during 2017, under the sponsorship of Yoga-Samskrutham University, Florida, USA. Looking for Associates who are interested in exploring this topic.)



**Point 1: **Vedangas ( and in this case Vedanga Jyotisha) is a practical discipline that facilitates the ‘ Practice to get the benefits / postulated goals in Vedas’.



 In this sense, Vedanga Jyotisha serves as one of the six
Practical Rule books. In this sense, the view point of Veda and Vedanga/ Vedanga Jytosiha are concurrent and Co-Centered.



 If One holds that Vedanga Jyotisha serves a different purpose, other than what Veda is postulating or proposing, then that is going against the grain of tradition.



While such a view is still respected as ‘ Poorva-paksha’ and ‘ respecting academic freedom’, it does not help to understand or practice ‘Vedanga Jyotisha’.



 The corollary of this being : Vednaga Jytosiha text- analytics must state upfront the position and views on the question : How, Why, What, What for is Veda? 

The ‘ angataa’ (auxiliary nature) of Jyotisha to Veda sets the tone for further study. 



 If ‘Veda’ is for ‘bilma /Bhilma /Bhaasanam’, according to the established tradition and scope of the discipline, then
Vednaga-Jytoisha research rests on the answer to the question 

‘What is to be ‘ lightened –enlightened’ ? How, Why, What, What for is enlightenment in the path of Vedas? 



 This defines the frame and scope of Vedanga Jyotisha studies.
Understanding Samskruth word meanings and Yoga of the words - ‘Bilma’ and ‘Veda’ sets the standard, 

competence and valid authority in the debates related to ‘ text on Vedanga Jyotisha’ and be recognized as a ‘Master under this tradition’.



**Point 2: **There are many Vedanga Jyotisha works over a period of
three or more millennia. They stand as a continuing and connected stream of thought and practice. As continuing and connected sets of
historical documents, they provide standards of ‘Vedanga Jyotisha Teaching –practicing guidance’. These texts do deal with many broad and specific topics which do cover and connect –‘ Physical astronomy’, Practical time measure’ , Arithmetic and mathematics, Cosmic events’ and ‘ Setting time for auspicious events performance (muhurtha). The guidelines in Vedanga Jyotish are drawn in to Dharma-Shaastra, Aagama and Tantra, Ayurveda and Vastu. These are part of Indian heritage and Hindu Religiosity.



 Even though the topics covered in Vedanga Jyotisha texts are of a wide nature, the inner-connecting string is still ‘bilma/ Bhilma /Bhaasanam’ linked to Veda. One cannot take the convenient position and dismember the study of Vedanga Jytosiha text to parts of ‘Stellar position observation related maths’ as authentic and ‘ reject ‘ the Nakshtra –Devataa’ part as ‘ faith superstition ’.



 How much of empirical observation and instrument based observation helps in understanding specific part of Vedanga Jyotisha / improve the practice - is something worth deep research. The precision of observation and calculation based on ‘Drik’ ( vision and Visibility) need to be fine tuned and balanced. This is fully in tune with the stand of tradition. This is the crux of debate between ‘Vakya –Drik and Siddhanta’ in Panchanga calculation and religious usage, popularly known as when to observe ‘Nirjala –Ekadashi ( Total fasting without taking even a drop of water) Or ‘ When to do Shraadha’ ? 



**A question for pondering** :What if Aryabhatta or Varaha mihira had access to Hubbell Telescope technology and NASA Sky-maps along with a computer software for simulation of sky-positions and planet movement ?
Would they have written something different, differently ? 



 It is exactly like the question, for Ayur-veda scholars ( who have kept their distance from Astrology) : What would have been the phase of Ayurveda if only Charka had an access to Microscope ? Why Charka advocate ‘Matra Vaidya’ and ‘ Muhurtha for medicine administration’? The key anser is in \< Bilma /Bhilma /Bhaasana’ and ‘Veda’.



**Point 3: **In the current state of art ‘ Jyotisha’ practice, the ‘Vedanga’ part has been abysmally minimal /non-existent’ ! The dominant part is ‘ Phala-Jyotisha’ and ‘ Muhurtha -Parihara’ related. Again constricted to Artha-Kama separated from \< Dharma and Moksha>. The
practice – advocacy directives have fallen way out of practicum on the understanding \< How, Why, What, What for is Veda? >. 

The dominant flavor of seeking Astrological consultation is
\< What is in for ME as a benefit ? How to meddle with course of Karma –Adrushta ? > . This is \< Purushartha> or rather \< Artha \> part of Vedanga Jytoisha in current society.



 The sadder part is what is currently passing muster as ‘Jyotisha’ / ‘Vedanga Jyotisha’ training across many lead institutions. There is very little training and education providing the integrated perspective of \< Yoga-Samskrutham and Veda> to the practicing professionals of Astrology . 



 The media has a negative lime light on Veda and Vedanga Jyotisha> using the torch of Abrahamic religion and theologies; not to say of the \< bad translation of Samskruth words>. A quote attributed to Swamy Vivekananda reading as follows is many times abused to bash astrology !



 \< Astrology and all these mystical things are generally signs of a weak mind; therefore as soon as they are becoming prominent in our minds, we should see a physician, take good food and rest. \> -Swamy Vivekananda.



 What is given a good go bye is the stand of eastern tradition by Varahamihira and Western medical tradition by Hippocrates. \< There is no better boat than a horoscope to help a person cross over the sea of life \> -Varaha mihira .

\< A physician without a knowledge of Astrology has no right to call himself a physician \> Hippocrates, in whose name the modern doctors
take oath of profession.> - Hippocrates



This may be worth contemplating further as a research- conference topic on Vedanga Jytosiha. 



Regards

BVK Sastry



--  



