+++
title = "000 R. N. iyengar"

+++
[[R. N. iyengar	2021-09-09, 12:48:22 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/0cXr0npY5TE)]]



As I am interested in History of Natural Sciences in India, I was going through the 2009 issue of the Indian Journal of History of Science.PFA the Editorial by the then Editor Dr.AK Bag. This seemed fine, till I found recently the following link, about a book on Ayurveda. The preface makes serious allegations (italicized in colour) against IJHS.

<https://www.exoticindiaart.com/book/details/medical-texts-and-manuscripts-in-indian-cultural-history-nam696/>  

From the Preface as available at the above link

".....CATS is committed to making the research of its members available as widely as possible in South Asia and throughout the world through conference presentations, workshops, and publications. Accordingly, following the 2008 Coimbatore workshop, several of the panelists agreed to publish their essays in a special issue of the Indian Journal of the History of Science (IJHS), which came out in 2009. *Unfortunately, the editing of that issue was severely com- promised. Errors were introduced into the essays, and titles and passages of text were re-written without consultation with the authors and sometimes against their explicit instructions. Although attempts were made to have the IJHS issue emended or withdrawn from circulation, in the end nothing could be done. The present volume offers these essays in the form their authors authorize, and updated with the latest research findings and interpretations. The editors of the present book have ensured that the style and presentation of the essays are consistent with the intentions of the authors."*

I am not connected with IJHS, though I have extensively published in that journal. AFAIK the articles are peer reviewed and I have been asked in almost every case to revise some parts or asked to respond to the questions of the referee. I am not an Ayurveda specialist and can not further comment on the issues involved in the above controversy. However, thisindicates to me that the post-colonialistic obsession of text-only-Indology of westerners about IKS is a reality. Topics of IKS (other than sAhitya-alamkAra) that are not amenable for easy objective analysis suffer at the hands of Kevala-Sanskrit scholars (within India or abroad) who lack direct experiential exposure to the discipline.

Thanks

RN Iyengar

  

  

  

