+++
title = "000 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2013-12-27, 23:06:02 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/DIpvvW9I7hI)]]



Dec 27, 2013  
  
Dear Dr. RNI, I am extremely thankful to you for giving me verses from MB related to Arantuka etc.  
  
Dr.RNI you are very special on this list. I respect your scholarship. Here is some more material for all scholars to think. I say please prove me wrong.  
  
My research shows this --Arantuka was Ukraine. Tarantuka was Chinese Tartari. Macakruka is Manchuria. And Raama-Hrada is lake on the border of modern Afghanistan and Iran. It is the ancient Sarasvati Sangama of Sarasvati (Harahvati) and Oghavati (Argandaaba). Jambu Dvipa (Indian subcontinent was not part of Kuru Empire until Jarasandha was killed. Several times Arjuna was defeated by kings of Jambu Dvipa. Everytime Krishna had intervened to save Arjuna. Arjuna had war with Ladies Kingdom which was in the ancient Synkyang province of China, Archaeological excavations confirmed that. The king of the country Tus'aara (Tokharistan) was taking care of pantry of Raja Yudhistira in his Rajasooya Yajna. Tokharistan was in the north of Pamira all way up). PLease note that Jarasandha of powerful Magadha was killed by trick of Krishna signalling Bheema. Krishna pacified the son of Jarasandha and requested him to help Pandavas. MB Empire included Shaka Dvipa, Kraunca Dvipa, Shalmali Dvipa (Arabia)and the whole Eurasia. That is why one finds Indo-European family of languages. River names in Lithuania are Indian river names. The ancient name of European country Croatia was Sarasvati (H'Rat). I checked with Croatian professor sitting next to me in Vedic Workshop at UT Austinn. Thanks. N.R.Joshi  
In the known history the first empire to rise on the Indian soil was from Magadha.  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
Do THIS before eating carbs &#40;every time&#41;  
1 EASY tip to increase fat-burning, lower blood sugar & decrease fat storage  
<http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3141/52bdbae21f8dd3ae17dacst02vuc>  

