+++
title = "000 Sivasenani Nori"

+++
[[Sivasenani Nori	2014-11-10, 08:15:57 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/79FWpTBV_M4)]]



On 9 November 2014 07:54, Prof. Hnbhat B.R. \<[hnbh...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  
"स्फोटवाद or अखण्डशब्दब्रह्म is the invention of मीमांसक-s and later  
acceptedby वैयाकरण-s advocated by भर्तृहरि based on वर्णनित्यत्व."  
  
N. Siva Senani replied:  
This statement is quite surprising given the vehement refutation of  
Sphotavaada by Kumarila in his Slokavartika. I would like to know if  
there is any Mimamsa text which speaks approvingly of Sphota or whose  
taatparya is in the acceptance of Sphota. If the conclusion is not  
based on a specific text, then if it is possible to show the reasons  
as to why such a position is tenable, I would be indebted to you.  
  
Prof. Bhat replied: स्फोटसिद्धिः  
  
-------------------------------------------------------  
  
Sir  
  
I thought Sphotasiddhi is a Vaiyaakarana text, very similar to  
Vakyapadiya, and a reply to Sphotavada of Slokavartika. Prof. K.  
Subrahmanya Iyer, the translator of Sphotasiddhi (and Vakyapadiya) in  
his introduction to Sphotasiddhi's translation says (p. 10)  
  
"Practically all the arguments advanced by Mandana Misra, including  
the analogies, have been taken from Vak. I. with the Vritti."  
  
The key difference between Vakyapadiya, Brahmakanda and Sphotasiddhi  
is that the former is held to establish Vakyasphota as the real nature  
of Sabda, whereas the siddhi in the latter work is of Padasphota, with  
an indication that other types of Sphota may be similarly established:  
  
निरस्तभेदं पदतत्त्वमेतद्व्यादर्शि युक्त्यागमसंश्रयेण।  
विधूतभेदग्रहमेतयैव दिशापरं सम्प्रतियन्त्वभेदम् ॥ ३६, स्फोटसिद्धिः ॥  
(The "aparam abhedam" is explained by the commentator Paramesvara as  
पदस्फोटात्परं वाक्यस्फोटमित्यर्थः)  
  
Therefore, on the two grounds a) that Mandana Misra enters the debate  
at a later stage than Bhartrihari and Kumarila, and b) that the  
material is not much different from Bhartrihari's, Sphotasiddhi may  
not be the text to show that "स्फोटवाद or अखण्डशब्दब्रह्म is the  
invention of मीमांसक-s advocated by भर्तृहरि based on वर्णनित्यत्व.".  
  
If Sphotasiddhi has been offered as "a Mimamsa text which approves  
Sphota" based on the fame of Mandana Misra as a Mimamsaka, then my  
submission would be that such a categorization is possible, if at all,  
only if there is a samanvaya between Varnavada and Sphotavada. No such  
samanvaya is found in the text. There is unequivocal khandana of  
Varnavada. Also, such an approach would make the Brahmasiddhi a  
Mimamsa text and all the texts of Vacaspati Misra, Appaya Dikshita,  
Nagesa Bhatta etc. dealing with different Sastras would have to  
categorized under one category only - may be Vedanta.  
  
Regards  
N. Siva Senani  

