+++
title = "000 R. N. iyengar"

+++
[[R. N. iyengar	2014-02-20, 12:36:04 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/zNw8GtcAlkA)]]



Dear Members,

Some time back there were posts by members with points for consideration by the new Commission. I like to add my two paise worth of opinion/suggestion/request.

It would be in the interest of the traditional Sanskrit Colleges/Universities to have a regular Mathematics department (not Jyotisha with GaNita-skandha), working in Sanskrit medium. This in the short run will not lead to any spectacular output, but the ambiance of interdisciplinary thinking will be mutually beneficial. In the long run, students will have a lateral way of intellectual training which will produce a new breed of scholars.

  

The experiment done by Ballantyne in the 19th Century at the Benares Sanskrit College, (see attachment) might have been unsuccessful. But it did produce one Bapudeva Shastri who learnt European Calculus to finally show to the world that the genesis of the modern subject was already in the Siddhantashiromani of Bhaskara in 12th Century. A parallel school of Pandits working at least on Mathematics (in Sanskrit) did not emerge from this flash in the pan, due to colonial era forces against Sanskrit education. But efforts at reviving the native Indic intellectual tradition has been glued firmly into the back seat after 1947. This is where a self search (aatmaavalokanam) is needed by the present day Sanskritic establishments however elusive this phrase may sound.

  

Mathuranath Shastriji in his preface seems to lament that Sanskrit study tradition has deteriorated into a lulled state where the physical world is ignored or glossed over as मृगविशेष, पुष्पविशेषetc. This comment (I feel) is aimed againstexcessive fascination towards काव्यशास्त्रविनोद &रसास्वादनat the expense of real historical truths of the country and its people. Not that such literary works are not required, but if large numbers go in that direction Sanskrit study becomes exclusive and loses relevance to the common people. Sanskrit if handled just as a language, will have to depend only on literary works of intrinsic worth but which will not get recognition without Rasikas and critics of equal caliber. In a democracy, that too with a weird definition of secularism, where only numbers matter, recognition to literary works in Sanskrit will not happen easily in a reasonable time.
One may have to wait for generations to get recognition for the work and not the author. Hence I feel the Commission can make recommendations which can finally lead to tangible visible results within say 10-20 years. Since finally public funds are invested, interdisciplinary studies would find least resistance is my gut feeling. The Commission is made up of very learned members; I request them to excuse my activism and to ponder over the contents of the attached articles.

  

How foreigners in recent years look at Sanskrit need not colour our thinking; but it is certainly worthwhile to know what they have to say (e.g.Sheldon Pollock). They look at it (without emotions) only as a language perfected or sculpted by PaaNini and a few others; to put it curtly. They will study and invest money in such studies to the extent their countries /cultures benefit. For us it can not not be just that, it has to be much beyond; in one sense the exclusivity tag attached to Sanskrit has to be firmly removed. This is where the Commission has a job on its hand!

  

regards

  

RN Iyengar

