+++
title = "020 rniyengar"

+++
[[rniyengar	2011-05-21, 06:38:38 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/a5Nqw2dvShw)]]



Dear Krishnakumar, In your earlier post you wrote:

“In Sanskrit each numbers has the special meaning and structure,so we

  
are trying to research this number system of our old tradition.  

Through this, we are trying to cover the history, origin & development  
and scientific structure of each number of Sanskrit.”

Your research goal as indicated above enthused me to respond to you.  
Since I have spent my whole career in scientific research I thought I  
could make a few suggestions, even though my statements may sound like  
queries. While I thank you for your frank reply you have avoided the  
first part of my post! My question about [As.t.au](http://As.t.au) is as much connected  
with your aim to cover history, origin etc. From the ensuing  
discussions it appears people recognize the word is peculiar as it  
sounds like a dual (I should have written in my post ‘like in dual  
number’). Of course it is actually plural. Just think of it; any  
number greater than two has to be in plural number by grammatical  
convention and daily usage. Here is one that sounds like a dual. What  
can grammar do about it? As you have tried to explain you have given  
the rules of PaNini for deriving it from the praatipadika. Since  
basically ashtaadhyaayii was for the spoken language, he also would  
have heard the word ‘like a dual’ only. To account for this anomaly he  
had to enunciate an extra sutra, so that the pratyaya ‘jas’ could  
still lead to the sound ‘au’. As is known grammarians are idealists in  
reducing the rules (ardha-maatraa-laaghavm putrotsavam manyante  
vaiyyaakaraNaah). This is a great scientific principle that is  
universal in its application to explain nature. Even from this  
consideration this form of eight is somewhat irregular or an anomaly.  
But this approach only tells us how a word can be derived from its  
basics with minimum effort. It does not explain why the original form  
should have been like that in the first place.

Among all basic integers (1 to 9) the form of eight appears peculiar  
to me. Is it possible there was a time when this was treated as “two-  
fours”? There is some evidence for this suspicion since in Kharoshti  
script eight is represented like XX, by writing the symbol for four  
(X) twice. I don’t expect my arguments to be accepted straightaway.  
But deeper research is required to understand ‘our’ numerals and  
system of counting in the ancient period. If you accept this then  
established texts and traditions should be minutely examined to get  
into uncharted fields.

There is another issue involved here. What is “Sanskrit” as per your  
definition? If it is the finished product of PaNini’s genius then  
everything is known or can be found out from the texts or from  
specialists. On the other hand if “Sanskrit” is that language or  
medium which is the main repository of the culture and history of  
Indic civilization we have lot of scope for research; by this I mean  
of finding new results.

Since you wrote that you are doing research on the origin of “Sanskrit  
numerals” I liked to draw you into a conversation through this route.  
Sorry if I am unconventional!

Best wishes for success in your research.  
RNI



\> \> \> Krishnakumar- Hide quoted text -  
\>  
\> - Show quoted text -

