+++
title = "000 Dr. Vamshi Krishna Ghanapathi (VKG)"

+++
[[Dr. Vamshi Krishna Ghanapathi (VKG)	2011-11-12, 05:05:50 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/_qKkvmM5Wvw)]]



Dear Scholars!

  

Please see, whether some information can be furnished about this.

Regards

VKG

From: jayasooryan pr \<[jayas...@hotmail.com]()\>  
Date: Thu, 10 Nov 2011 10:32:34 +0530  
Subject: Nyasa 'in detail'‏‏  

  

Namaskaram,

I would like to know that any text or a group of texts (grandha) /articles/booklets or anything explaining the following ‘in detail’.

Metre of Mantra, Mudras, different types of Nyasa like Rishyadi Nyasa, Kara Nyasa, Anga Nyasa/Shadanga Nyasa, Pitha Nyasa, Matrika Nyasa, Mantra Nyasa, Devata Nyasa, Tattva Nyasa, GrahaNyasa, Vyapaka Nyasa, Laghu Nyasa, Mahasodha Nyasa, Digbandhana and so on.

I emphasize **‘in detail’** means the following

1.  The Tattva behind each of the Nyasa. 2.  The Procedures to Perform. 3.  Explaining the roots of the Procedure or the **‘sasthram’**, i.e.,
    why should it perform and touch the specific fingers (collectively
    or separately accordingly) to the specific centers. 4.  Changes formed in the Body, Mind and so on.

I am not familiar with Devanagari Lipi. So I need a text in English, Malayalam or Sanskrit with English Commentary.

Most of the internet Resources are only interesting but not eligible for trusting. They produce more confusion and spread misleading information.

Expecting your favorable reply

jayasooryan

  

