+++
title = "001 B.N. Patnaik"

+++
[[B.N. Patnaik	2009-08-25, 19:20:56 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/arJIBcdpl0s)]]



  
Dear Dr. Venkataramana,  
  
I am not a specialist on Paninian grammar, my interest in Paninian grammar  
being more of a conceptual and methodological nature. So kinly take my  
observations with a "pinch of salt", as the cliche goes.  
  
From my limited understanding, I should like to say the following: there  
may not be any issue with Panini's grammar being descriptive (rather than  
prescriptive). (It is another thing that in the pedagogical situations  
often a descritive grammar tends to be used as a prescriptive one.)I am  
not sure that there is an issue either about his grammar being generative.  
  
I do not know about the possibility of debate regarding his grammar being  
transformational. I think, as many do, that his grammar is indeed  
transformational as well, but I do not know whether this is the accepted  
position. I recall a view (I read somewhere)that his grammar may not be  
transformational. I do not agree because he posits underlying  
representations and his derivational process makes use of rules that add,  
delete, etc.  
  
In any case, there may be something here to explore (not with regard to  
its decriptive or generative nature, in my opinion). For instance, is  
Paninian syntax transformational? If it is, to what extent, if not, what  
formal mechanisms do the task of transformations, leading to a comparative  
study of the relevant formal mechanisms, and beginning with these, quite a  
lot else, I suppose.  
  
I am very sorry for this rather long mail.  
  
With kind regards,  
Sincerely,  
B.N.Patnaik  

  
  
  
\> Respected scholars,  
\>   
\>  I am inteterested to write an article on the topic " is  
\> panian grammar descriptive or generative". Please inform if any articles  
\> are already written in this regard, so that i may avoid punarutkti. and  
\> also please let me know where can i get those articles if already written  
\> by any one.  
\>   
\> Thanking you,  
\>   
\> B.V.Venkataramana,  
\> Asst.Prof, Dept of Darshana,  
\> JRRSU, jaipur.  
\>  
\>  

\> See the Web&#39;s breaking stories, chosen by people like you. Check  
\> out Yahoo! Buzz. <http://in.buzz.yahoo.com/>  
\> \>  
\>  
  
  
--  
Retired Professor of English and Linguistics  
Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur  
  
Current address:  
1 E, Debonair Regency  
7th Main, 3rd block, Jayalakshmipuram  
Mysore - 570012  
Landline: 0821-2411259  
Alternative Email: [bn.pa...@gmail.com]()  
  
Blog: <http://saralamahabharat.blogspot.com>  
<http://linktopatnaik.blogspot.com>  
Website: <http://bnpatnaik.wordpress.com>  

