+++
title = "000 Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma"

+++
[[Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma	2010-09-15, 19:53:33 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/vY_oCs71z4s)]]



नमो विद्वद्भ्य:  
From the back cover of the book(one of the five volumes) authored by Dr.S.K Kapoor,  
published by Lotus Press, 4263/3,Ansari Road,Darya Ganj, New Delhi 110002.  
Ph.30903919,23290047, E-mail [lotus...@sify.com]()  
**Vedic Mathematics Basics**  
150pages. Rs.125/=  
(C)2006,Dr.S.K Kapoor  
ISBN 81-8382-045-X  
".....Dr.S.K kapoor is well known authority upon the ancient *Discipline of Vedic Mathematics.  
.....*He has been awarded Gangeshwarananda Veda Ratna Puraskar 1997 by Bharatiya  
Vidya Bhavan for his exceelence and research in the field of Vedic Sciences and Mathematics.  
From the conceptual format of Doctoral thesis of Dr.Kapoor titled 'Mathematical basis of Vedic  
Literature' to his first book 'Vedic Geometry', to the whole range of books(*Fermat's last theorem  
and higher spaces reality course, Foundations of Higher Vedic Mathematics,Goldbach Theorem,  
Glimpses of Higher Vedic Mathematics, Learn and Teach Vedic Mathematics, Vedic Mathematics  
Decodes,**Space Book**, Practice Vedic Mathematics Skills*) and now the present set of five books  
(***The Teaching of Vedic Mathematics,Learning Vedic Mathematics on First Principles, Vedic  
Mathematics Basics, Vedic Mathematics Skills,*** **and** ***Vedic Geometry Course***) is a big range  
which promises layout for re-construction of Vedic Mathematics of its ancient wisdom glory."  
  
The grammar mistakes and ambiguity,if any, are not mine. I have only copied what is on print.  
I have the five books listed at the end of the above quotation.The language is in  
draavida-praanaayaama style. And yet the author seems to have many insightful flashes.  
प्रणाम:  
  
--  
Aangirasa/Dr.S.Ramakrishna Sharma. M.A.,Ph.D.(Eng.Lit.),Ph.D.(Sanskrit.).  

