+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-12-21, 18:01:49 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/2UNBRohH1-U)]]



The bronze age writing system of Sarasvati hieroglyphs: Indus script cipher contd.

  

From the editors (*JIJS*)…

  

Another new perspective on Indo-Judaica is archaeology, and S. Kalyanaraman analyzes the discovery of Bronze Age ingots from the Saraswati Civilization (known to some as the Indus Valley Civilization) in the harbor at Haifa, Israel.

S. Kalyanaraman, 2010, The Bronze Age Writing System of Sarasvati Hieroglyphics as Evidenced by Two “Rosetta Stones” - Decoding Indus script as repertoire of the mints/smithy/mine-workers of Meluhha, *Journal of Indo-Judaic Studies, Number 11, pp. 47-74*

**The Argument: The Invention of the Sarasvati Writing System Is Related to the Invention of Bronze Age Alloying**

Two pure tin ingots discovered in a shipwreck in the ancient port of Dor, south of Haifa, are referred to as “Rosetta stones” of the Bronze Age writing system (Indus script) because the pictographs on these ingots refer to tin in the mleccha (meluhha) language. The epigraphs on the tin ingots have been decoded as being related to ranku, “antelope,” ranku, “liquid measure,” and dhātu, “ore.” The two epigraphs on the two ingots are read as rebus: ranku dhātu is “tin unalloyed” (i.e., pure metal).

This article reads the epigraphs incised on the ingots as hieroglyphs that depict the nature of certain items. Metallic tin (ranku dhātu) reads as a rebus in mleccha (meluhha, milakkhu), which was the lingua franca of India’s Bronze Age civilization’s linguistic area.

That India was a linguistic area is well argued by Emeneau (Emeneau 1956: 3-16; Emeneau 1974: 92-134), Kuiper (Kuiper 1967: 81-102), Masica (Masica 1976) and Southworth (Southworth 2005).

The epigraphs incised on the tin ingots are Sarasvati hieroglyphs in the mleccha (meluhha) language, which is part of the Indic language family. (They are called ‘Sarasvati hieroglyphs’ because about 80% of the ca. 2600 archaeological sites of the so-called Indus Valley civilization are on the banks of the Vedic river Sarasvati.) The epigraphs ‘certify’ the metal as ranku, which is ‘tin’ (molded out of) a baṭa or furnace. Two homonyms: (1) antelope and (2) liquid-measure represent Ranku and are read phonetically as ‘ranku’.

Read on… **<http://tinyurl.com/246az9m>**

Linked at:<https://sites.google.com/site/kalyan97/indus-script-cipher>

