+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2011-10-28, 18:04:16 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/4VD11pR_iA8)]]



ISAW: The Institute for the Study of the Ancient World was founded by Shelby White and the Leon Levy Foundation.

Open Access at ISAW

<http://ancientworldonline.blogspot.com/2011/10/open-access-at-isaw.html>  
  
In recognition and support of Open Access Week, this post lists digital resources currently available from ISAW and its collaborators under the terms of open licenses:  
  
Ancient World Image Bank  
  
View and download over 2,000 free digital images of sites and objects from the ancient world, contributed by ISAW faculty, staff and friends.  
  
Content License: Creative Commons Attribution  
  
Ancient World Online  
  
Find out about all the latest online and open-access material relating to the ancient world, regardless of where it's published.  
  
Content License: Creative Commons Attribution No Derivatives Share-Alike  
  
Papyri.info  
  
Search and browse over 80,000 ancient Greek, Latin and Coptic documents preserved on papyrus and other materials. Images, texts, translations and descriptions contributed by scholars and institutions around the world. Funded by the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation and the National Endowment for the Humanities.  
  
Content License (texts and descriptive information): Creative Commons AttributionSoftware License: GNU General Public License  
  
Pleiades  
  
Use, create and share information about ancient places, spaces and geographic names. Over 30,000 places registered (and growing). Funded by the National Endowment for the Humanities.  
  
Content License: Creative Commons Attribution  
Software Licenses: GNU General Public License and other open-source licenses

