+++
title = "006 Damodara Dasa"

+++
[[Damodara Dasa	2018-05-07, 15:36:22 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/8LEbqOzOe04)]]



Practical:  
  
Say one is a farmer by profession to maintain his body. How will be  
his daily activities and internal bhavana?  
  
Morning brahma-muhurta to little after sunrise, time for activities  
directly responsible for spiritual advancement technically called  
sadhana.  
  
Similarly activities in the eveing (from little before sun-set to sleep).  
  
Also afternoon activities (about 1-2 hours) for same purpose, usually  
in the form of discussions on Bhagavatam, Gita, Puranas, etc). Also  
madhyahnikam.  
  
Rest of the time is the maximum time one is allowed to work for  
maintaining body, i.e. to earn livelihood (artha). But consciousness  
is that one wants to minimize this time and maximize the time for  
sadhana. Thus the principle is labho-jiveta yavata -- earning only as  
much needed to keep body (not only one's own but of family and  
society) fit for sadhana. This necessitates reducing kama (sense  
gratification). Thus such a person doesn't try to increase  
sense-gratification.  
Such a type of engagement in artha and kama is not considered material  
and doesn't bind one in the material world as is described in Bg.  
sariram kevalam karma kurvannapnoti kilbisam.  
  
Regarding sex-life at night, such a person engages in sex life only  
for the purpose of begetting child and that too according to tenets of  
sastras, only with one's legitimate wife. The bhavana is that he wants  
to give one soul a chance for liberation and thus he calls for a soul  
and takes responsibility to train him in salvation -- pita na sa syat  
janani na sa syat na mocayed yah samupetya mrtyum (SB).  
  
In this way the whole family life is centered around moksa (ultimately  
Krsna Consciousness) and thus dharma-artha-kama are not to be  
considered different from moksa of such a family.  
  
Thankyou,  
Hari Guru Vaisnava Das,  
damodara das  

  
  
  
On 5/7/18, Damodara Dasa \<[damoda...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

î—“

