+++
title = "000 R. Narayana iyengar"

+++
[[R. Narayana iyengar	2013-01-14, 12:13:24 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/y_D0ZSnuk-g)]]



Dear Prof.Aklujkar,

You brought up several interesting points which are mutually interconnected in your BVP post. In fact, your observation about my

' ऐतिहासिक दृष्टि' and the furtherfour points on sacrifice are sufficient to develop a full thesis by a Ph.D aspirant! About research methodology (RM) in Sanskrit studies, that is ancient wisdom, it can not be different from that in other subjects like mathematics, meteorology,
biology etc. The goal of RM is already contained in the definition of buddhi: नवनवोन्मेषशालिनी प्रज्ञा बुद्धिः .But unfortunately many of our (Sanskrit) universities get stuck in the methodology and dish out literature review as research! Sometimes large amount of data is presented without analysis and conclusion that can stand criticism. As an outsider this is my perception; I would love to be corrected. Our Shastras have grown only because of analytical thinking born out of questioning the previous authors. This is precisely how modern subjects have grown and are growing. Since this spirit has suffered a set back in the last 100-200 years, efforts are necessary to introduce subjects which tease the brain into the curricula. Mathematics (not of the very pure variety) but elementary topics from Calculus, Mechanics, graphical methods, statistics and pattern recognition would greatly help Sanskrit students. But the tragedy in India is Ramanujan's birthday is celebrated in Sanskrit univs also but without any idea of what Ramanujan stood for or what he did. If a critical mass of Sanskrit students who are well trained to think along quantitatively logical lines come up the situation will dramatically change. I am stressing the importance of mathematics mainly because the Indian mind is supposedly better tuned totheoreticalmodel making (as per many leading scientists). Among the current s'aastra subjects popularly pursued I put the maximum blame on practitioners of 'Jyotisha' as what they are giving to the society is neither mathematics nor astronomy. What is the use of repeating in public lecturesयथाशिखा मयूराणां .....गणितं मूर्धनिस्थितं \|\| without continuing the legacy of Vedic gaNita and astronomy through the PuraNic & siddhantic to the present period?

I can write about the importance of pursuing History, Archaeology, and Music at Sanskrit Univs but for the time being

I remain ...

  

with regards

  

RN Iyengar

 

PS about the 'esoteric reason' behind animal sacrifice and meat eating I will write my understanding separately.

  

  

