+++
title = "009 Dr. T. Ganesan"

+++
[[Dr. T. Ganesan	2009-04-12, 12:25:37 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/CXswxSRUl1A)]]



\>Dear BharatiyavidvaamsaH,  
Please go through this forwarded mail and you will easily how the Indian History  
is being distorted, manipulated and the real facts are outrageously concealed  
under state patronage just for THE VOTES. !  
Ganesan  
  
--- On Fri, 3/13/09, Raviraj Pethe \<[ravira...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  
  
  
From: Raviraj Pethe \<[ravira...@gmail.com]()\>  
Subject: Change Anti-Hindu NCERT' syllabus neglecting Chattrapati Shivaji  
Maharaj and glorifying Mughals  
To: "Raviraj Pethe" \<[ravira...@gmail.com]()\>  
Date: Friday, March 13, 2009, 12:42 PM  
  
  
  
  
ll Sree ll  
  
  
Change Anti-Hindu NCERT syllabus neglecting Chattrapati Shivaji Maharaj and  
glorifying Mughal’  
  
Todays is birth Anniversary of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. Chhatrapati Shivaji  
Maharaj is a principle of effulgence, rather a divine inspiration. He is  
certainly not human, he is God. In fact he is a Primal God who took birth in a  
divine and pure culture.  
  
  
  
HJS salutes Chattrapati Shivaji Maharaj on His Birth Anniversary!  
  
<http://www.hindujagruti.org/hinduism/national-icons/shivaji-maharaj/>  
  
But what is Central Government’ NCERT gift to Chattrapati Shivaji Maharaj ?  
  
• In the text book of NCERT for Standard 7 ‘Our Past – ll’ there are only 5  
lines on Chattrapati Shivaji Maharaj.  
• 60 pages given to Mughal’s history and Mughal rulers who made the Hindus  
slaves.  
• Not even a single photo of valorous Chattrapati Shivaji Maharaj is printed.  
The place for the photograph is left blank.  
• While the photos of atrocious, tyrannical Muslim kings, Babar and his  
descendants starting from 700 AD are printed.  
• No mention of Chattrapati Shivaji Maharaja’s ‘Hindavi Swarajya’ but it is  
just mentioned as ‘local government’.  
• No mention at all of Maharana Pratap who had fought with Mughal sacrificed  
the leisure of royal palace and used to sleep on the grass like ordinary people.  
  
For more info. about the NCERT books controversy click on the link below….  
  
<http://www.hindujagruti.org/activities/campaigns/national/ncert-textbook-controversy/>  
  
'O great warrior Shivaji Maharaj, forgive us for your such mention through  
distorted Indian History and now grant us strength to fight with these Modern  
‘Mughals’ and re-write the real Indian History'  
  
Be real follower of Chattrapati Shivaji Maharaj by changing syllabus prepared by  
Modern Mughal in NCERT.  
  
Participate In Hindu Janajagruti Samiti's Statewide agitations today, Falgun  
Krushna Trutiya, 13 march 2009  
  
Mumbai  
  
Venue - Near statue of Chattrapati Shivaji Maharaj, Shivaji Park, Dadar, Mumbai  
Time – 4 pm to 5.30 pm  
  
Ambarnath, Thane  
  
Venue – Near statue of Chattrapati Shivaji Maharaj, Shivaji Chauk  
Time – 6 pm to 7.30 pm  
  
Yavatmal  
  
Venue – In front of District collector office  
Time – 2 pm to 5 pm  
  
Raigad, Pune and Vardha agitations already over.  
For any question write to [prav...@hindujagruti.org]()  
  
  
Kashi ki Kala Jati, Mathurame Masjid Hoti, Agar Shivaji n hote to Sunnat Hoti  
Sabaki - Poet Bhushan  
  
  
  
Jay Bhavani, Jay Shivaji !  
  
  
  
  
--  
In order to Start Hindu Janajagruti activities in your area! visit  
<http://www.hindujagruti.org/activities/serve-dharma//>  

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Dear Sir / Madam, Glad to read your thought provoking email on history  
\> from original sources. Kindly see the enclosed papers presented at  
\> "International Conference on Indian History" at Delhi on 9th to 11th  
\> January 2009. Please write tback to me with your questions, suggestions,  
\> comments and criticisms. Eagerly waiting for your reply, Yours  
\> faithfully, D.D.Misra N.B. Please also visit the web site  
\> <http://biss.gq.nu/> and see "From the President's desk"  
\>  
\> ----- Original Message -----  
\> From: "sadasivamurty rani"  
\> To: [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
\> Subject: On The Need of Rewriting Ancient Indian Hisotry from  
\> exclusive Sanskrit Sources  
\> Date: Fri, 10 Apr 2009 10:19:30 -0700 (PDT)  
\>  
\> Whenever we think of our Ancient Indian Hisotry a great abyss pull us  
\> into it with the force of the Bermuda Triangle..Though we know the  
\> tendency of the modern authors of Indian History, though we observe a  
\> great lacunae between the Reality and the Falsehood we just remain  
\> dumb spectators. Can we come over from this bitter situation? Can  
\> we rewrite our Ancient Indian History from our own Sanskrit Literary  

\> Sources?Of course there are a few ready answers from some scholars  

\> regarding The Efforts of Bharatiya Vidyabhavan, and Ramakrishna  
\> Mission, Calcutta which published many volumes in this matter .But  
\> main stress we expect to be paid to reconstitute it the Linking  
\> History between Dvapara Yuga and Kaliyuga. Let us seen whther there  
\> is any such possibility. Dr. Rani Sadasiva Murty  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\> --  

\> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
\> Search for products and services at:  
\> <http://search.mail.com>  
\>  
\> --\~--\~---------\~--\~----\~------------\~-------\~--\~----\~  
\> à¤…à¤¥ à¤šà¥‡à¤¤à¥ à¤¤à¥ à¤µà¤®à¤¿à¤®à¤‚ à¤§à¤°à¥ à¤®à¥ à¤¯à¤‚  
\> à¤¸à¤‚à¤—à¥ à¤°à¤¾à¤®à¤‚ à¤¨ à¤•à¤°à¤¿à¤·à¥ à¤¯à¤¸à¤¿à¥¤  
\> à¤¤à¤¤à¤ƒ à¤¸à¥ à¤µà¤§à¤°à¥ à¤®à¤‚ à¤•à¥€à¤°à¥ à¤¤à¤¿à¤‚ à¤š à¤¹à¤¿à¤¤à¥ à¤µà¤¾  
\> à¤ªà¤¾à¤ªà¤®à¤µà¤¾à¤ªà¥ à¤¸à¥ à¤¯à¤¸à¤¿à¥¤à¥¤  
\> à¤¤à¤¸à¥ à¤®à¤¾à¤¦à¥ à¤¤à¥ à¤¤à¤¿à¤·à¥ à¤ à¤•à¥Œà¤¨à¥ à¤¤à¥‡à¤¯  
\> à¤¯à¥ à¤¦à¥ à¤§à¤¾à¤¯ à¤•à¥ƒà¤¤à¤¨à¤¿à¤¶à¥ à¤šà¤¯à¤ƒà¥¤  
\> à¤¨à¤¿à¤°à¤¾à¤¶à¥€à¤°à¥ à¤¨à¤¿à¤°à¥ à¤®à¤®à¥‹ à¤­à¥‚à¤¤à¥ à¤µà¤¾  
\> à¤¯à¥ à¤§à¥ à¤¯à¤¸à¥ à¤µ à¤µà¤¿à¤—à¤¤à¤œà¥ à¤µà¤°à¤ƒà¥¤à¥¤ (à¤­.à¤—à¥€.)  
\> -\~----------\~----\~----\~----\~------\~----\~------\~--\~---  
\>  
\>  
  
  

