+++
title = "000 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2012-02-14, 11:23:24 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/_Ko6VKtFaLY)]]



Sir,



You will have the true scientific signifacance of 108, when I type out my latest research work on Sandhyavandana and Shakhapaddhati (of RSS). The paper is readied in Kannada and is to be typed out and edited. It will be a continuum of 'VedocChistam Jagatsarvam" (Sanskrit). Kindly bear with me for a short while; till I complete the typing.

s.r.krishna murthy.



  
  


On Mon, Feb 13, 2012 at 5:44 AM, Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma \<[d.ramak...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > **Significance of 108**  
> > 
> >   
> The Indian Subcontinent rosary or set of mantra counting has 108 > beads. 108 has been a sacred number in the Indian Subcontinent for a > very long time. This number is explained in many different ways.  
>   
> The ancient Indians were excellent mathematicians and 108 may be the > product of a precise mathematical operation (e.g. 1 power 1 x 2 power > 2 x 3 power 3 = 108) which was thought to have special numerological > significance.  
>   
> Powers of 1, 2, and 3 in math: 1 to 1st power=1; 2 to 2nd power=4 > (2x2); 3 to 3rd power=27 (3x3x3). 1x4x27=108  
>   
> Sanskrit alphabet: There are 54 letters in the Sanskrit alphabet. Each > has masculine and feminine, shiva and shakti. 54 times 2 is 108.  
>   
> Sri Yantra: On the Sri Yantra there are marmas where three lines > intersect, and there are 54 such intersections. Each intersections has > masculine and feminine, shiva and shakti qualities. 54 x 2 equals 108. > Thus, there are 108 points that define the Sri Yantra as well as the > human body.  
>   
> 9 times 12: Both of these numbers have been said to have spiritual > significance in many traditions. 9 times 12 is 108. Also, 1 plus 8 > equals 9. That 9 times 12 equals 108.  
>   
> Heart Chakra: The chakras are the intersections of energy lines, and > there are said to be a total of 108 energy lines converging to form > the heart chakra. One of them, sushumna leads to the crown chakra, and > is said to be the path to Self-realization.  
>   
> Marmas: Marmas or marmastanas are like energy intersections called > chakras, except have fewer energy lines converging to form them. There > are said to be 108 marmas in the subtle body.  
>   
> Time: Some say there are 108 feelings, with 36 related to the past, 36 > related to the present, and 36 related to the future.  
>   
> Astrology: There are 12 constellations, and 9 arc segments called > namshas or chandrakalas. 9 times 12 equals 108. Chandra is moon, and > kalas are the divisions within a whole.  
>   
> Planets and Houses: In astrology, there are 12 houses and 9 planets. > 12 times 9 equals 108.  
>   
> Gopis of Krishna: In the Krishna tradition, there were said to be 108 > gopis or maid servants of Krishna.  
>   
> 1, 0, and 8: 1 stands for God or higher Truth, 0 stands for emptiness > or completeness in spiritual practice, and 8 stands for infinity or > eternity.  
>   
> Sun and Earth: The diameter of the sun is 108 times the diameter of > the Earth.  
>   
> Numerical scale: The 1 of 108, and the 8 of 108, when added together > equals 9, which is the number of the numerical scale, i.e. 1, 2, 3 ... > 10, etc., where 0 is not a number.  
>   
> Smaller divisions: The number 108 is divided, such as in half, third, > quarter, or twelfth, so that some malas have 54, 36, 27, or 9 beads.  
>   
> Islam: The number 108 is used in Islam to refer to God.  
>   
> Jain: In the Jain religion, 108 are the combined virtues of five > categories of holy ones, including 12, 8, 36, 25, and 27 virtues > respectively.  
>   
> Sikh: The Sikh tradition has a mala of 108 knots tied in a string of > wool, rather than beads.  
>   
> Chinese: The Chinese Buddhists and Taoists use a 108 bead mala, which > is called su-chu, and has three dividing beads, so the mala is divided > into three parts of 36 each.  
>   
> Stages of the soul: Said that Atman, the human soul or center goes > through 108 stages on the journey.  
>   
> Meru: This is a larger bead, not part of the 108. It is not tied in > the sequence of the other beads. It is the quiding bead, the one that > marks the beginning and end of the mala.  
>   
> Dance: There are 108 forms of dance in the Indian traditions.  
>   
> Pythagorean: The nine is the limit of all numbers, all others existing > and coming from the same. ie: 0 to 9 is all one needs to make up an > infinite amount of numbers.  
>   
> We have listed below 108 Upanishads as per the list contained in the > Muktikopanishad . We have arranged them in four categories according > to the particular Veda to which each of them belong.  
>   
> Rigveda(10): Aitareya , Atmabodha, Kaushitaki, Mudgala, Nirvana, > Nadabindu, Akshamaya, Tripura, Bahvruka, Saubhagyalakshmi.  
>   
> Yajurveda(50): Katha, Taittiriya , Isavasya , Brihadaranyaka, Akshi, > Ekakshara, Garbha, Prnagnihotra, Svetasvatara, Sariraka, Sukarahasya, > Skanda, Sarvasara, Adhyatma, Niralamba, Paingala, Mantrika, Muktika, > Subala, Avadhuta, Katharudra, Brahma, Jabala, Turiyatita, Paramahamsa, > Bhikshuka, Yajnavalkya, Satyayani, Amrtanada, Amrtabindu, Kshurika, > Tejobindu, Dhyanabindu, Brahmavidya, YogakundalinI, Yogatattva, > Yogasikha, Varaha, Advayataraka, Trisikhibrahmana, mandalabrahmana, > Hamsa, Kalisantaraaa, Narayana, Tarasara, Kalagnirudra, Dakshinamurti, > Pancabrahma, Rudrahrdaya, SarasvatIrahasya.  
>   
> SamaVeda(16): Kena, Chandogya, Mahat, Maitrayani, Vajrasuci, Savitri, > Aruneya, Kundika, Maitreyi, Samnyasa, Jabaladarsana, Yogacudaman, > Avyakta, Vasudevai, Jabali, Rudrakshajabala.  
>   
> Atharvaveda(32): Prasna , Mandukya, Mundaka, Atma, Surya, > Narada-Parivrajakas, Parabrahma, Paramahamsa-Parivrajakas, > Pasupatha-Brahma, Mahavakya, Sandilya, Krishna, Garuda, Gopalatapani, > Tripadavibhuti-mahnarayana, Dattatreya, Kaivalya, NrsimhatapanI, > Ramatapani, Ramarahasya, HayagrIva, Atharvasikha, Atharvasira, > Ganapati, Brhajjabala, Bhasmajabala, Sarabha, Annapurna, > TripuratapanI, Devi, Bhavana, SIta. >
> 
> > — with [Melanie Anthony Chatham](http://www.facebook.com/smellas) and > [24 > others](http://www.facebook.com/browse/users/?ids%5B0%5D=638213206&ids%5B1%5D=700394290&ids%5B2%5D=748495944&ids%5B3%5D=1008911296&ids%5B4%5D=1129518106&ids%5B5%5D=1153546496&ids%5B6%5D=1251176171&ids%5B7%5D=1259850667&ids%5B8%5D=1373904663&ids%5B9%5D=1382781359&ids%5B10%5D=1424535712&ids%5B11%5D=1532136505&ids%5B12%5D=1552364151&ids%5B13%5D=1682271117&ids%5B14%5D=100000008644508&ids%5B15%5D=100000457657779&ids%5B16%5D=100000580387103&ids%5B17%5D=100000615201839&ids%5B18%5D=100000742544901&ids%5B19%5D=100000898741101&ids%5B20%5D=100001325655628&ids%5B21%5D=100001837458397&ids%5B22%5D=100003129627714&ids%5B23%5D=100003151031118&title=Friends "Sivadelic Shivam > Carla Berinda > Nisya ShaKti > Manisha Khuller > Diane Denison > Sareena Lal > Shrinandan Ji > Lily Zaykova > Veena Dhaar > Irina Daranova > Dr.Ramakrishnan Srinivasan > Hindu Dharma Dharmam > Bhaskar Sen > Nehal Patel > Gayatri Shakti Chaliha > Kaila Kukla > Annette Durga Human-Adamson > Iliyana Zaharieva > Dilip Kumar Vaidya > Zankharia Sudhanshu > and 4 more...").  
> TAKEN FROM FACEBOOK. A POST WHICH DOES NOT ACKNOWLEDGE THE SOURCE,  
> POSTED BY A PSEUDONYM. However the content is good. I remember to have > read this on  
> a webpage, two/three years ago.  
>   
> Dhanyosmi.  
> > 
> > 
> >   
>   
> --  
> [Puthige Document > 2011](http://www.scribd.com/doc/47565765/Puthige-Document-2011)  
>   
> [.](http://www.scribd.com/doc/47565765/Puthige-Document-2011) >
> **[B](https://sites.google.com/site/bharatiyaheritage/home/awake-oh-bharatiya)  
>   
> [haratiya > Heritage](https://sites.google.com/site/bharatiyaheritage/home/awake-oh-bharatiya)Aangirasa/Dr.S.Ramakrishna > Sharma. M.A.,Ph.D.(Eng.Lit.),Ph.D.(Sanskrit.).**  
> > --  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google  
> Groups "Foundation for Indian Scientific Heritage" group.  
> To post to this group, send email to  
> [foundation-for-india...@googlegroups.com]()  
> To unsubscribe from this group, send email to  
> [foundation-for-indian-scie...@googlegroups.com]()  
> For more options, visit this group at  
> <http://groups.google.co.in/group/foundation-for-indian-scientific-heritage?hl=en?hl=en-GB>  
> HERITAGE AWARENESS MAKES AN ENLIGHTENED CITIZEN.

  

