+++
title = "001 Dr.BVK Sastry"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry	2009-04-29, 09:04:48 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/OSQoicu2Hms)]]



Namaste  
  
I have uploaded the Full Paper of Dr.Rao in the Files section : File  
named:Science-Indus-Rao-paper for review. This may help schoalrs to  
understand better the on going discussion here.  
  
While I agree with Professor Michael Witzel on the point that the  
paper needs a closer review, and the observation \< To my mind at  

least, language is a hallmark of ANY human culture, whether  

hunter-gatherer or state society... \>, the key issue is on three  
specific points:  
Point 1: Nature of Language ( if it is one; what if it is more than  
one langauge / technical usage) and the right tools of analysis. For  
any 'historic' document needs to be analyzed in three perspectives:  
(1a) Inheritance up to the point of the document ( 1b) Contemporary-  
contextual use of the language in the evidence (1c) How later  
traditons transmitted this understanding over layers of time and  
society.  
  
In my humble opinion, IVC analysis of today is heavily resting on  
preferential views related to historicity of Sanskrit-Sumerian-Tamil  
languages, Opinions about the nativity of the language speakers of  
IVC, and presumption that IVC can be analyzed on par with a 'primitive  
society using modern tools of socio-cultural dynamics developed around  
the tribal studies. This precisely is the root cause of branched  
opinions of teams working on the IVC. Teams with a better band width  
and cyber reach have a 'better heard shout' in such discussions.  
Unfortunately, this is not the forte of traditional scholars.  
  
Apart from animosity, I am yet to hear about the IVC analysis from  
Vedic Sanskrit perspective from Pre-Paninian Sanskrit-Prakrit grammars  
of appropriate period. Contra , what is being presented is 'extremely  
later period Tamil centric- Dravidian semitic/ tribal society model  
constructed / interpreted views with the backdrop of anti-vedic  
natives in the land'. This deeper problem, as Professor Michael Witzel  
says can be noticed only when one goes through the theories of  
language and mathematics related traditions in Sanskrit. \<None of  

them, apparently, has read the supplementary materails carefully. O si  

tacuisses...> The key issue is study of 'Bharateeya bhaashaa-lipi-  
shaastra' beyond the 'lingusitics' of west. This 'exotic subject,  
obviously does not get any funding support, for it upsets the apple  
cart of many establsihed teams.  
  
As Dr. N R Joshi notes \< patriotism is not substitute for scholarship  
and scholarly research \> But it does not mean working with inaccurate  
tools and introducing hermeneutic deficinences in analytical  
methodology of interpreting evidence should be lived with. Plain  
answer is 'We dont know at present sufficient enough to draw any  
conclusion on this topic'. Instead of this, the animosities have gone  
to the extent of challenges and announcement of prize -rewards for  
disproving a 'preferred theroy'!  
  
This issue is a long debated one, where neither the Indian team nor  
the western ( challengers) teams are willing to address the key issue  
or drop their preferential presumptions for which they are committed  
and hold. The Indian schoalrs need to say what was the 'historic foot  
print of Vedic language' in relation to IVC (-If issue of  
Apaurusheyatva is to be dropped ?!, which is suicidal to the  
tradition), in the interim period of Ramayana (6000 BCE?) and  
Mahabharata (3100 BCE?). The western teams need to address critically  
what was Indian Langauges scenario prior to 1700 BCE, from a  
Samskrutham-Prakrit position ( an not preferential prejudicies of  
Aryan-Dravidian theories). This calls for analysis of language related  
theories and 'State of Consciousness' - an aspect which is missing.  
The western theories of language are built on 'sociological  
perspective' and not on 'Speech as an expression of Inner Self' (= Vak  
abhivyakti /Vak-Brahma).Accepting these lines of argument presented in  
Vedic documents would be suicidal to the western teams and Darwinian  
modelling of evolution.  
  
The off shoots of this question are critical for both teams: How  
reliable is Panini-Patanjali - Yaska language perpective -vocabulary  
derivation- Yaskas Nirukta traditions in addressing a langauge set  
prior to their own period, by at least a couple of/ plus ( depending  
upon historic time line preferred) centuries ? Should Langauge layers,  
as preseted by the western schools by historicity be accepted for  
understanding of Vedic-Vedantic tradition? In which case, the  
traditional schools will suffer a great hit: 'Vedanta schools later  
presentation can not be a 'Divine Vision' and 'Meaning of Veda'. The  
Vedanta acharya schools end up as no better than individual  
philosphical-mystic thinkers of their time and society! and Indian  
society is ' faith' centric society ( and not Dharma centric ?!). This  
problem can be shut down only if one is myopic and does not want to  
see the 'Vedanta tradition, as presented in the time frame of \<700-  
1600 CE>.  
  
  
From another perspective, What do we get from the referential  
traditons in Artha shastra and several other Indian traditions about  
the 'Bharateeya history in Kalpa-Manvantara periods' ( beyond adjusted  
time scales and fancy interpretations)? Why Buddhist and Jain  
traditons are mum on the IVC ? It may be noted that Buddhsits and  
Jains were the flag bearers of non-vedic/non-sanskrit streams in early  
period .  
  
  
I hope some one starts loking at these issues and respond beyond  
'animosity' and quoting 'instituional affiliations and name  
appendages' for an offense / defense!  
  
Regards  
  
BVK Sastry  



\> Bhankrota, Jaipur, 302026.- Hide quoted text -  
\>  
\> - Show quoted text -

