+++
title = "003 Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma"

+++
[[Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma	2010-09-13, 06:31:11 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/FHmtNs7wVMY)]]



Respected Sri Nripendra Pathak Ji,  
  
From your paragraph, to recap, the following understanding emerges:  
  
1)Programing language is artificial language, that is artificial language means programing language.  
2)Programing language is uniform language.  
3)It is structured language, having well defined grammar.  
4)Natural languages - all natural languages - other languages ?  
5)so that machine can understand? OR FUNCTION?  
6)translate it in other languages? OR CONVERT?  
7)without any barrier of language? (Like pure water contained in clean transparent bottle,  
Sanskrit is capable of containing knowledge, jnaanam.)  
  
Kindly clarify 4,5,6 and 7.  
  
Any machine, without any exception, functions only  
when operated by an external independent conscious living agent.  
"Understanding" is a living conscious process, one is conscious of.  
In other words, I know that I know; I know that I do not know.  
  
No machine can be svayambhu having knowledge of itself and being capable of  
designing further other machines!  
\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*  
Is it possible that the keyboard is Sanskrit and the display is Sanskrit  
without the intervention of English?  
  
Regards.  
  

  
2010/9/12 nripendra pathak \<[nri.p...@gmail.com]()\>



  
  
  
--  
Aangirasa/Dr.S.Ramakrishna Sharma. M.A.,Ph.D.(Eng.Lit.),Ph.D.(Sanskrit.).  

