+++
title = "005 Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)	2014-04-10, 16:56:12 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/NtNDTeI8rWM)]]



Namaste Ramachandran Mahadevan



1. What is the’ prioritized interest’ of your students in achieving a research based doctoral award in this endeavor? 

(a) Scholarship (Paanditya)

(b) Contribution ( Shaastra sampat)

(c) Service to tradition ( paramparaa )

(d) Employment qualification acquisition ? (Udyoga-Vrutti –jeevikaa)



2. If it is interest in \< contributing for scholarship> and
\< pride of traditional excellence> , beyond seeking a ‘ employment position which demands Indian government recognition’, then I have the following suggestions to make and continue this dialogue.



3. Here below are the topics:



1. Revisit and review of the Colonial translations of Indian traditional writings in Samskrutham. The goal is to bring out and tabulate differences in the thought processes and application of research tools in analysis , which has positioned the Samskrutham studies in the current scenario in global academia.



2. Ab-initio study and analysis of original texts of Samskrutham in the Non-Vedanta /Non-Kavya domains. i.e. Focus on works in the areas of 64 vidyas and upavedas,



3. Writings and Translations of ‘ Abrahamic scriptures’ in to Sanskrit in post 1600 C.E – across length and breadth of India.
(Generally referred to as Missionary Sanskrit works).



4. Re-narration of Samskrutham traditions in regional languages : Writings about socially relevant segments of Shaastra



There is a serious relevance ( beyond a kaala-kshepa model dialogue in glorifying the past) and need to do research in this area.



The students and institutions should be willing to do their part of ‘ Loka-kalyana’ as a ‘Vidya /Rishi Rina’ beyond the ‘ Personal –moksha seeking through the Guru-Gates and grace of institutional heads’.



Regards

BVK Sastry



------------------------------------------------------------------------

No virus found in this message.  
Checked by AVG - [www.avg.com](http://www.avg.com)  
Version: 2014.0.4355 / Virus Database: 3882/7323 - Release Date: 04/09/14



