+++
title = "002 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2012-03-09, 10:16:15 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/rhHTEFamYbs)]]



My dear Sri Ajit,



I have given the essence of all the Upanishads as expounded by Shankara, and all other Acharyas; that Brahman is one and the only one; and that the entire universe is Brahman - sarvam khalvidam brahma. The Upanishads also tell us about vaithathyam - different appearances - aabhaasas. That how the appearances or how view are different; but materially everything is the same - as shown by the examples of mrith-ghata and haataka-aabharana.



You have stated that I have oversimplified; true. It so appears because others have overmystified the Truth. Shankar had the historic necessity of smashing the devious theories of the Buddhists, the atheists, and shaktaas, the tantrics, etc.,etc., that had challenged the Upanishads and the Advaita; else he would have also simplified the simple Upanishads such that everyone might access that.



The scientific Truths enshrined in Chandogya and also BrihadaaraNyaka are so simple and straight-forword, as shown by the Great Shankara in just four short verses called the Panchikarana, shows and illustrates how a great teachers teaches in simple terms - though the commentaries on the four verses run into 400 pages. Similarly scholars are not satisfied in showering praises on Shankara; so they enalarge the explanations of Shankara, that were used necessarily to tear down the doubts and arguments of non-advaithins. But I am not under that obligation. Mr. V.Subramanian is as much an Advaithin as you, Mr.Ajit, are and as I am; about which there is no doubt.



All that I have done is to show that the words misinterpreted by non-advaithins as the interpreatations of Shankara, is relied upon by Advaithins like you; which is not correct and which is not necessary. You kindly read PancheekaraNam of Shankara, with the vaartikam of Sureshwaraacharya, the direct desciple of Shankara, and the first pontiff of Shringeri Mutt. and reread the ShankaraBhashya on Upansihads. I have offered to accept your version if you show that Shankara has not used the terms I referred to in the sense that I have annotated.



Besides I would like to point out that it is notmere words; but practice that helps advaita; which Shankara demonstrates. Of course, inshort postings such as these, with the constraints oftime and space, withlittle time to edit,it is not possible for one to be perfect. So it is wrong to expect one to give a lesson as such on any point; butit is only to show the possibiity of a different view that is possible and plausible for consideration. If on consideration one may accept it or reject. But it is notlogical to expect that the entire philosophy can be capsulised into one email-posting.



Those who are not open to consideration have a right to ignore that also.



Yours fraternally,

s.r.krishn murthy.



  
  


On Thu, Mar 8, 2012 at 2:25 PM, Ajit Gargeshwari \<[ajit.gar...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> Dear ShriKrishna Murthy,

> 
> >   
>   
> "In other words, after the anubhava, even though the world continues > to appear, hisknowledgethat it is only a **false > appearance** stays steady."  
>   
>   
> > 

> This is a self contradicting statement. in other words it is logically > flawed.  
>   
> This is a disputed concept o Advaita. The question of relation > between between Jiva, Atman and Brahman, I agree but what you say is > not correct or you have not written accurately.  
>   
>   
> दृश्यत्वं असत्यं naturally then वस्तुतः असत्यं should be true.  
>   
> Even by a million words fire is always hot. so there are always levels > of truth. Shankara has tried to explain his philosophy from the > perspective of three levels of truth.'Prathibhasika Sathya, > Vyavaharika Sathya and Paramarthika Sathya.  
>   
> <http://groups.yahoo.com/group/advaitin/message/37483>  
>   
> What you said and what Mr. V. Subramanian is entirely different, You > can see your own mails sent on this list. This is all I have to say > Thank You  
>   
> Regards  
> Ajit Gargeshwari



