+++
title = "004 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2012-03-09, 11:51:12 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/rhHTEFamYbs)]]



My dear Sri Ajit,



In the first place, since now I am on North Indian tour, I cannot quote from the texts.

Secondly, about changes in the consistency, I refute that there is any change in the subject per se; but since there is a change in the nature of inquiries and a change in the inquires, to answer a particular aspect queried I may have to adopt a particular line.



As regards Ganesan, let him first read books on Shakara and Shankarabhashyas on all Upanishads, and History of Dharma Shastra, particularly by Pandurang Vaman Kane and/or others. If he has doubts even after reading them, he may raise the doubts. I will definitely try to answer him, if I am still there till that time.



Kindly note that I have only responded to the posting each time; according to a point raised by a scholar; and I have not changed. My explanations may have more than one dimension of course; which may rouse the interests of the other scolars. Indeed that was the one of the reasons why I was invited to join this site. And that is the level of debate that has been going on.



In this case Sri V.Subramanian posted a query on 'Keshi'. I did not intervene inthe thread, until a particular point was made, which required one's attention; when I did respond.



you want me to give references.Now, I have given enough references - for example, Panchikaram.

But you have not looked into them, obviously. I have gvien references to upamaanas used by Shankara, - for example, Mrit and Ghata; and Haataka and Aabharana. You speak of standard texts of philosophy.

My citations of the examples are the famous comparisons that every philosopher uses. STILL you have considered their true implications.



You need not agree with me at all. But since the prime objective of this site was to enrich our experiences by mutual discussions, I have given what clues I have relied on. If you do not want to consider my views, kindly talk to Acharyas of your choice and discuss with them; or any knowledgeble people around you. My interest is that you should benefit yourself; not by me or through me. But benefit yourself, you must. How you do is left to you. But kindly concede the truth, that short of quoting shankara, directly, I have given all clues and references and examples; as possible. They are sufficient for a scholar to digest.



yours fratenally,

s.r.krishna murthy.



On Fri, Mar 9, 2012 at 10:57 AM, Ajit Gargeshwari \<[ajit.gar...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> Dear Krishnamurthy,  
>   
> One needs to have logical consistency, coherence and structure while > writing. In each of your posts you are introducing new concepts , > Technical words which are not consistent with your earlier post. In a > thread one can discuss one concept or one thought at a time. I don't > have to repeat here, how you have changed the topic of discussion in > each of your reply. If you need a discussion please be relevant to the > subject of the thread. If you have your own hypothesis, theories not > supported in classical texts of Advaita please clearly say so and > state reason clearly as to why your position is better.  
>   
> Advaita philosophy or any philosophy is structured and technical word > when used will mean one and the same to all readers. If you are > deviating from standard meaning attributed to a technical term please > say so and give you reasons correctly.

> 
> >   
>   
> "Shankar had the historic necessity of smashing the devious theories > of the Buddhists, the atheists, and shaktaas, the tantrics, etc.,etc., > that had challenged the Upanishads and the Advaita; else he would have > also simplified the simple Upanishads such that everyone might access > that. "  
>   
> > 

> Please substantiate this statement as Shri Ganeshan has asked.

> 
> >   
>   
> "In other words, after the anubhava, even though the world continues > to appear, hisknowledgethat it is only a **false > appearance** stays steady.' That is what exactly I quoted from > Shankara - दृश्यत्वं असत्यं and not वस्तुतः असत्यं ॥ Indeed no > standard text \[other than recent \] on advaita can give a different > meaning."  
>   
> > 

> Please let me know where Shankara has said so by quoting the relevant > texts from his Bhashya on Bramha Sutra.  
>   
> Regards  
> Ajit Gargeshwari  
>   
>   
>   
>   
>   
>   
> > 
> > 







