+++
title = "002 Dr. P. Ramanujan"

+++
[[Dr. P. Ramanujan	2016-10-04, 18:14:38 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/byCturLdYVQ)]]



भगवद्रामानुजाचार्यैः स्वीये नित्याख्यग्रन्थे ऊर्ध्वपुण्ड्रधारणं विहितम् ।



रामानुजः  

On October 4, 2016 at 4:22 PM Jaya Prakash \<[jayaprak...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:

> 
> > Hello All, >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > I do have some basic questions sorry for asking in the group. If any > one knows please tell. >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 1\. Bhasma dharana ( Tripundra) is coined by whom ? Since in > Shankaracharya Dig Vijaya or any of his works there is no mention of > Bhasma Dharana. Even in his disciple book non of them have coined. >
> 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 2. UrdhvapuNDra is coined by whom ? Since in Ramanujacharya works > there is no mention of Urdhvapundra. >
> 
> > 
> > 3. Gopichandana is coined by whom ? Since in Madvacharya works there > is no mention of Gopichandana. >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Is there any shastra base for all these ? >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Thanks, >
> 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > --  

> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  

> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  

> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  

> For more options, visit [**MailScanner has detected definite fraud in > the website at "groups.google.com". Do *not* trust this website:** > https://groups.google.com/d/optout](https://groups.google.com/d/optout).

  


  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
\[ C-DAC is on Social-Media too. Kindly follow us at:  
Facebook: <https://www.facebook.com/CDACINDIA> & Twitter: @cdacindia \]  
  
This e-mail is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may  
contain confidential and privileged information. If you are not the  
intended recipient, please contact the sender by reply e-mail and destroy  
all copies and the original message. Any unauthorized review, use,  
disclosure, dissemination, forwarding, printing or copying of this email  
is strictly prohibited and appropriate legal action will be taken.  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

