+++
title = "003 Dr. P. Ramanujan"

+++
[[Dr. P. Ramanujan	2013-07-26, 09:40:37 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/IcSEvFT0dWw)]]



There is a printed book in grantha script published in 1888, which is  
authentic.  

  
On Fri, Jul 26, 2013, "Hnbhat B.R." \<[hnbh...@gmail.com]()\> said:  
  
\> If you can use scanned copy it is available in the DLI site:  
\>  

\> 450. \*ashtadhyayi sutrapatha\* \* shastri s. sankar ram\*; litrature, 1937, madras  
\> mailapur shri balmanorama press prakashan, 285 pages. Barcode \*1990160083449  
\> \* \*Scan available.\*  

\>  
\>  
\> If you are looking for only Unicode Font file format, somebody may help by  
\> entering the text or yourself may try it for your use and help others.  
\> There are some other Editions also with Vartika-s. The above is standard  
\> one used by many scholars of last century at least since its publication.  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\>   
\>  

\> --  
\> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
\> ---  
\> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
\> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
\> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
\> Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
\> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/groups/opt_out>.  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\>  
  

--  
Dr. P. Ramanujan  
AD-IHLC,  
C-DAC, Bangalore (VVT)  
[ra...@cdac.in]()  
080-22863110 (Off.-Dir.)  
  
  
  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
  
This e-mail is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may  
contain confidential and privileged information. If you are not the  
intended recipient, please contact the sender by reply e-mail and destroy  
all copies and the original message. Any unauthorized review, use,  
disclosure, dissemination, forwarding, printing or copying of this email  
is strictly prohibited and appropriate legal action will be taken.  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
  

