+++
title = "017 Damodara Dasa"

+++
[[Damodara Dasa	2015-10-30, 20:11:15 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/51KsU6WE2EY)]]



Hare Krishna.  
  
Dr.Subrahmanyam Koradaji----  

"One has to start सं वं when there are stars in the sky - offer  
अर्घ्यम् before सूर्योदय - keep doing गायत्रीजप till सूर्योदय - and  
then offer उपस्थानम् ( मित्रस्य चर्षणीधृतः - प्रातस्सन्ध्या) ।"  
  

So this means that everyday one will be exposed to bAlArka (or  
bAlAtapa). But Manu Smrti (4.69) as quoted before and similar  
quotations from other smrtis advice to avoid bAlArka. Thus the need  
for discussion arose.  
  
Dr.Subrahmanyam Koradaji-------  

"One has to take into consideration the degree of heat - the rays /  
sunlight is harmful iff ( only if ) they are तीक्ष्ण / scorching .  
Even when the Sun is really hot and one has to work in a field for a  
couple of hours - he would go with an उष्णीष / cotton headgear and  
take some precautionary steps such as consuming more buttermilk /  
lemon water etc ."  
  

Yes, it is well known that hot sun is harmful. But the problem is that  
Manu Smrti asks to avoid early morning sun, in which case early  
morning working hours of farmers in practice today as well as from  
centuries are in question. Thus needs discussion.  
  
Reframing my question:  
Manu Smrti states to avoid bAlArka. But in tradition we find in all  
varnas that people do expose themselves to early morning sun - in  
offering arghya, snanam, working in fields, Surya namaskara, etc. Thus  
what about the above injunction of Manu Smrti (and similar injunctions  
in other smrtis).  
  
Thankyou,  
Damodara Das.  



\> \*Skype Id: Subrahmanyam Korada\*  
\> \*Blog: [Koradeeyam.blogspot.in](http://Koradeeyam.blogspot.in) \<<http://Koradeeyam.blogspot.in>\> \*  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\>  



