+++
title = "028 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2015-11-01, 03:15:01 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/51KsU6WE2EY)]]



Oct 31, 2015



I like this scientific information of sunlight. Thanks. Prof N. Paturi. We use UV light in magnetic particle and liquid penetrant testing of Nondestructive testing methods. N.R.Joshi

  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: Nagaraj Paturi \<[nagara...@gmail.com]()\>  
To: [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Surya Namaskara - It's vedic evidence and is it to be performed exposing oneself to sun  
Date: Sat, 31 Oct 2015 11:06:10 +0530  
  

## The following is from

## <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Health_effects_of_sunlight_exposure>

## Safe level of sun exposure

According to a 2007 study submitted by the [University of Ottawa](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Ottawa "University of Ottawa") to the US Department of Health and Human Services, there is not enough information to determine a safe level of sun exposure that imposes minimal risk of skin cancer.^([\[39\]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Health_effects_of_sunlight_exposure#cite_note-ODS-sheet-ref-5-39)) In addition, there is not yet conclusive evidence on which components of ultraviolet radiation (UVA, UVB, UVC) are actually carcinogenic.^([\[8\]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Health_effects_of_sunlight_exposure#cite_note-13th_Report_on_Carcinogens-8)) The composition reaching the ground changes through the day and year: approximately 95% UVA and 5% UVB at high noon, shifting toward 99% UVA and 1% UVB when the sun is at a low angle in the sky.^([\[40\]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Health_effects_of_sunlight_exposure#cite_note-40)) UVC is almost completely absorbed by the atmosphere and does not reach the surface in any appreciable quantity.^([\[41\]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Health_effects_of_sunlight_exposure#cite_note-41)) As a result, only the broad-spectrum combination (UVA, UVB, UVC) known as "ultraviolet radiation" is listed as a carcinogen; the components are only "likely to become" known carcinogens. Solar radiation (sunlight) and sunlamps are listed as carcinogens because they contain ultraviolet radiation.^([\[8\]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Health_effects_of_sunlight_exposure#cite_note-13th_Report_on_Carcinogens-8))

  

On Sat, Oct 31, 2015 at 10:53 AM, sunil bhattacharjya \<[skbhatt...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Shri Damodara Dasaji,  
>   
> > 
> > One thing I forgot to mention and that is the fact that the clothings > do give protection and the exposed parts of the body are only > susceptible to the Sun's rays. Also please do not forget that the > farmers do wear clothes and also the fact that the Asian Conical hats, > including the Jaapiin Assam are used by the farmers in South-Asia > and South-East Asia.  
>   
> > 
> > 
> > As regards Surya-namaskara, you will agree with me that it would not > take more than 10 to 15 minutes, the safe limit for exposure to the > Sun.  
>   
> > 
> > 
> > Do you want to say that Manu was wrong and the modern science also is > wrong and that 3 to 4 hours of exposure of human skin to the Sun > would not have any ill-effect ? If you say so, then let us agree to > disagree. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> Thanks, >
> 
> > 
> > Sunil KB". >
> 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > On Fri, Oct 30, 2015 at 9:53 PM, Damodara Dasa > \<[damoda...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > > Sunil Bhattacaryaji ----  
> > \>\> Asआतप means heat it is clear that by using the word वालातप Manu > > is referring to morning Sun-bath  
> >   
> > Does this mean that the age old practice of farmers' working in > > fields  
> > in early morning (till about 2 hours after sunrise), > > surya-namaskara,  
> > etc. wrong according to Manu Smrti and modern science? If there is  
> > danger of cancer then why do we not find great number of cases in  
> > farmers, who for time immemorial, are working in fields in early  
> > morning sun? Also Surya namaskara has very good health benefits  
> > recorded if done exposed to sun. Also the same manu smrti > > recommends  
> > sandhya vandanam and arghya exposing oneself to early morning  
> > sun.These need to be discussed.  
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > > Thankyou,  
> > Damodara Das  
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 









  
  
  
--  

Nagaraj Paturi



Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA.



Former Senior Professor of Cultural Studies



FLAME School of Communication and FLAME School ofLiberal Education,



(Pune, Maharashtra,INDIA)









--  



