+++
title = "000 Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma"

+++
[[Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma	2010-06-06, 17:39:39 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/0kUl-gyFN5o)]]



हरि: ॐ  
नमस्ते।  
**FROM THE FOLLOWING WEBSITE THE LIST IS COPIED.**   
<http://www.vedascience.com/Research.htm>  
These papers can be purchased from them. But they should have provided  
the Abstracts. Whether they meet the required standard or not, is to be found out.  
Report of the Seminar is available here:  
<http://www.vedascience.com/International%20Seminar%20on%20Vedic%20Microbiology.htm>  
  

1.New Varttikas to Panini - A Supplement. *  
*Supplements Panini's grammar with the help of 19 new Varttikas formulated on the basis of 56 such vocables as were not delineated by the Munitrayi - Trinity of Sages, i.e. Panini, Katyayana and Patanjali.

2\. Vedic Symbolism -The Original Source of Indian Iconography.  
Leads to the conclusion that the mistaken and misinterpreted Vedic symbols are the original source of Indian Iconography and Iconolatory.  
Makes an humble attempt to solve the riddle of the number and the root of the widely disputed cardinal number Astau. The paper finds Panini true in his observations.  

3.The Aryan Problem - A Linguistic Approach.  
This paper takes note of the linguistic speculations of the western philologists that led to the formulation of the Aryan Problem. On studying Sanskrit, they came to know that there was a great deal of similarity between Sanskrit and the other Principal Languages of Europe, but their superiority complex and racial, cultural and sectarian (religious) bias came on the way of acknowledging the influence of Sanskrit on their languages. The paper discards the entity of postulated Proto Indo-European language and questions the validity of all such attempts as establish sisterly relationship between Sanskrit and the other principal Indo-European Languages. The paper observes that the other Indo-European Languages owe their origin to Sanskrit as much a later stage of linguistic development when Prakritas were taking from in India.  

4.A Study in Brihaddevata 1.22-31.  
This paper tries to analyse the textual contents and interpretations of the Brihaddevata 1.22-31 rendered by Macdonell and Ram Kumar Rai. It finds the translations of both Macdonell (English) and Ram Kumar Rai (Hindi) as crude, unintelligible and often misleading. In view of the same, a new translation has been rendered by the author wherever he found their translation misleading.  

5.The Brahmanas - A Key to Vedic Interpretation.  
The present paper tries to assess the importance of the Brahma‡as in the interpretation of the Vedas and hence emphasises the need to understand the acts and figures of the Brahmanika rituals (Srauta Yajnas) in their actual form and essence or otherwise the actual Vedartha (meaning of Vedas) will remain darkened and unrevealed to the gaze of all.  

6.Sanskrit- The Original Source of English.  
This paper studies the origin and development of English language. It traces English back to Sanskrit as its Proto Language via many other European Languages. In course, it discards the postulation of so-called idea of imaginary Proto Indo European Language.  

7.Vedic way to beat the Nature - An Account of a Rainmaker's Efforts.  
This paper attempts to prove that nature can also be controlled by human beings, as it was done in the Vedic period. It tries to highlight all the means of conquering nature. That is why, in Vedic period the seer proclaimed that let the rains take place as and when we desire. nikame nikame nah parjanyo varshatu. He never showed his helplessness towards what we call today natural calamities.  

8.Origin and Development of Vedic Science and Technology.  
This paper deals with the nature of science and technology developed and originated in the Vedic period. The Vedic period records the development of three types of science named Adhyatmika (Spiritual), Adhibhautika (Astronomical) and Adhibhautika (physical). Similarly technology was also of three types : Mantrika (based on the mental desire of the YogÏ, Tantrika (based on sounds etc.) and Yantrika (based on machine).  

9.Rainmaking with the help of Yajna.  
The present paper lays down the principles of Vedic technique of rainmaking. It also takes stock of the various attempts made in this direction from time to time from Vedic period till date.  

10.Yajnika School of Vedic Interpretation.  
Vedas along with their meaning were preserved since the time of their origin by a long tradition of their inheritors. Those inheritors later divided into many schools viz. Nairuktas, Aitihasikas, Padapathakaras, Naidanas, Adhyatmikas and Yajnikas etc. The present paper deals with the principles of Yajnika School of Vedic interpretation.  

11.Padapatha School of Vedic Interpretation.  
Vedas along with their meaning were preserved since the time of their origin by a long tradition of their inheritors. Those inheritors later divided into many schools viz. Nairuktas, Aitihasikas, Naidanas, Adhyatmikas, Yajnikas and Padapathakaras etc. The present paper deals with the principles of Padapatha School of Vedic interpretation.  

12.Textual Variations of Samaveda.  
When the Mantras of Rigveda were borrowed in Samaveda for attunement to music, 106 of them registered variations at various of linguistic levels i.e. phonetic, morphological, syntactical and semantic. The present paper records all such variations and tries to explain their nature and cause of occurrence.  

13.History - Its Meaning and Scope (The Ancient Indian Perspective).  
It is often contended by foreign scholars as well as their followers in India that Indians had no sense of history and chronology. The present paper takes stock of the concept of history prevalent in ancient India. It presents a detailed account of meaning, scope and various modes of writing history in ancient India.  

14.Science of Vedic Fire Altars.  
The present paper establishes that Vedic ƒrauta Yajnas are symbolic figuration pointing to some adhyamika, adhibhautika or adhibhautika sense. Vedic fire altars also through area, shape and construction material symbolized various aspects of terrestrial, astronomical and spiritual sciences.  

15.Agnishomiya Pashu-yaga - An Operation for Rainmaking.  
This tries to observe that Agnishomiya pashuyaga represents the psychological, astronomical and terrestrial aspects. In psychological sense, it is the charging of an individuated consciousness with knowledge. pa„u here means a curious student or an individual (individuated consciousness) who is able to perceive the world around him but cannot cognize the same. pashu sanjnapana means to make the individuated consciousness surcharged with knowledge. Complete surcharging leads to universalization of consciousness of moksha from physical body. Agni means a charge of knowledge and Soma is a good conductor of charge or say a student worthy of charging with knowledge. A Soma is always sacrificed to Agni for the accomplishment of the process of surcharging.  
The main purpose of Agnishomiya yaga in adhidaivika sense works out to be rainmaking.  
The purpose of Devayajna form of ASPY is narrated in the Yajus- mantra as follows:  
adbhyastau-adhibhyai (VS. 6.9)  
i.e., 'for the sake of waters and vegetation we procure you O havis !'  

16.Origin of Sarasvati as Described into Ancient Sanskrit Literature.  
The present paper presents for the first time a systematic study of various flows of Sarasvati in various phases right from the Vedic down to the Mahabharata period as described in the vast Vedic and post Vedic literature. The present paper helps stop further speculations regarding Sarasvati and helps the readers and scholars develop a view of Vedic Sarasvati in the right and proper perspective.  

17.Antiquity of Vedic Culture - A Geological Code.  
Until recently it was held by church and its followers that earth originated around 6000 years ago. But geological evidences encoded in the Vedic and allied literature prove that Indian culture is much more older than the church's concept of the origin of earth which brainwashed the historians, indologists, and scientists of west and their blind followers in India for many decades.  

18.Antiquity of Bharatiya era - A Test of Authenticity.  
Some scholars consider that the length of Indian era is somewhat hypothetical based upon backward astronomical calculations. The present paper cites many astronomical, biological, geological and cultural evidences encoded in the Vedas to authenticate the very antiquity of the Indian era.  

19.Rediscovering Vedic Sarasvati.  
The present paper presents for the first time a systematic study of various flows of Sarasvati in various phases right from the Vedic down to the Mahabharata period as described in the vast Vedic and post Vedic literature. The present paper helps stop further speculations regarding Sarasvati and helps the readers and scholars develop a view of Vedic Sarasvati in the right and proper perspective.  

20.Trigarta - A Geohistorical and Chronological Perspective.  
The present paper discusses in detail the age and geological location of Trigarta which was known from time to time by the names of Kangra, Nagarkota, Bhavan. Bhauça,Su„armapur, Kangarh and Jalandhara puri. Its ancient most name was Jalandhar which represented the time of pre-Himalayana era when Manasasara or Tethy's sea was in existence.  

21.Age of Himalayas.  
According to modern researches into Geology, the Himalayan ranges of mountain originated between the time span of 20 lake to 7 crore years ago. But the ancient Indian historical tradition preserved into Pura‡as dates the origin of Himalayas back to 13 crores of years ago, i. e. in the end of Cak-usa and beginning of Vaivasvata Manvantara. Pura‡as also record this epoch making event of geological history. The present paper discusses all the cues registered in the Pura‡as regarding the origin of Himalayan ranges of mountains.  

22.Bhakti Movement - A Great Hindu Revival.  
This paper tries to redefine the Bhakti movement. Bhakti movement was not only for devotionalism, but it marked a great Hindu revival or awakening against the Muslim rule and the proselytizing influence of Islam in this country. The most revealing factor of this movement was that it was led by the great saints of this country, who realised the far reaching consequences of being enslaved by the foreigners and Islamisation of this country. Sufis were not the philosopher as is often held, but the staunch missionaries of Islam. Thus it be maintained that right from 8th century till 17th century, Bhakti movement dominated the scene as a struggle against Islam. It was only in 19th century that the impact of Christianity challenged the Hinduism again which resulted into yet another cultural renaissance led by Arya Samaja, Brahmo Samaja, Devo Samaja etc.  

23.Vaisheshika's Three Forms of Energy.  
According to the Vedic scientists represented by Kanada of Vaisheshika philosophy, the present creation composed of both Prak‚ti (matter) and Puru-a (consciousness) is sustained by three forms of Sanskaras. In fact, the term Sanskara in Vaisheshika philosophy is corresponding to the modern term of energy. The three SaŠskaras described in Vaisheshika philosophy are : (1) Sthitisthapaka (2) Vega and (3) Bhavna. Sthitisthapaka Sanskara is akin to that of potential energy. Whereas Vega SaŠskara is similar to that of kinetic energy. The third Bhavana SaŠskara is the psychic energy which is quite new to the modern science. If energy is defined in terms of ability to do work, Bhavana SaŠskara or psychic energy will provide unlimited ability to do work. Through one's mental power attained through the regular practice of Yoga, one can do any work. He can send messages to any part of globe or to other planets if the need be. He can read even other person's mind and is able to materialize any thing at his will. SaŠskara has been counted in Vaisheshika Darshana among the Gu‡as or qualities. Hence it is easy to infer that Vedic scientists never took energy as independent entity as is considered in the modern science. Guna or attribute is always dependent upon the Guni, the Almighty. Shakti is the dharma of shaktimana. Thus Vedic philosophers never think of creation without its creator.  

24.A Study into Phonemicization of Vedic and Classical Sanskrit.  
The present paper studies the division of various phonemes in Vedic and Classical Sanskrit from the point of view of modern linguistics.  

25.War Technique in Mahabharata,  
The paper proves that nuclear weapons were used in Mahabharata war. Science and technology during Mahabharata period was far in advance. A careful examination of Mahabharata show that different types of offensive and defensive weapons were used in Mahabharata war. Their operation was fully under control of the operator. The operator was equipped with such capabilities as could withdraw the operate weapon if the need be. The missiles generally returned to their point of operation after successfully hitting the target. Mantrika operation was generally preferred instead of Yantrika or mechanical operation. During the Vedic period military science was so advance that combat weapons were also developed to neutralize the effect of certain Divine weapons, e.g.  
1.Nagastra was combated with the help of Garudastra.  
2.Bhargvastra was combat weapon for the Mahendrastra.  
tharava‡astra could be combated by Agneyastra.  
Î-ikastra was combated with the help of Brahmastra.  
Effect of Pramohanastra was neutralized with the help of Prajnastra.  
¶ganeyastra was combated with the help of Varu‡astra.  
Combating Linguistic Problems in Hindi  
The some of the problems reported by the learners of Hindi involve pronunciation of sounds, handling of nasality, placement of moras, clustering or combining of consonants. These problems of Hindi language can better be addressed in view of the principles of articulation, rules of placement of moras, rules of syllabication and syllabic structure prevalent in Sanskrit/Prakritas to which it owes its structure. The present paper, as it does, takes into consideration such linguistic tendencies of Hindi language as are posing a challenge to the learners of Hindi and tries to provide an insight into them in view of their treatment in the parent languages.

  
26.Reviving the Age Old Historical Tradition of India.  
The westerners came here with the whole and sole mission to rule this country which was rich in all respects. They wanted to propagate their religion so that the people of this ancient most civilization may also be converted into their fold. To rule this country politically, it was necessary for them to establish their racial, ideological and historical superiority upon the people of this country. That is why there was a deliberate attempt on the part of European intelligentsia in the 17th and 18th century to present a distorted picture of Indian history, culture and literature, so that an intellectual crisis might be declared in this country. The present paper sets aside all such accusations against India and Indian history as are unfounded and suggests some ways and means for the revival of the age-old historical tradition of Bharata incorporated and preserved safely in Pura‡as, in the records of Panjikaras or Pa‡Ças existing at all the famous Tirtha sthalas of India and in the traditions of Magadhas and SÊtas, who were given the liability of teaching and preaching the history of our country. In this very chain Kathavacakas, Carakas, Bhatas, Mirasis, Vrittalekhakas' tradition may also not be overlooked who produced the literature based on real history.  

27.Science and Technology in Mahabharata  
This paper proves that nuclear weapons were used in Mahabharata war. Science and technology during Mahabharata period was far in advance. A careful examination of Mahabharata shows that different types of offensive and defensive weapons were used in Mahabharata war. Their operation was fully under control of the operator. The operator was equipped with such capabilities as could withdraw the operated weapon if the need be. The missiles generally returned to their point of operation after successfully hitting the target. Mantrika operation was generally preferred instead of Yantrika or mechanical operation. Similarly scientific advancement in the field of, space research, astronomy, medical sciences and engineering was at its pinnacle.

**Note : Copies of the above mentioned articles are available with the Foundation. They are available on demand after making due payment online.**

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
None of the papers is in Sanskrit.  
प्रणाम:  
  
  
  
  
--  
Aangirasa/Dr.S.Ramakrishna Sharma. M.A.,Ph.D.(Eng.Lit.),Ph.D.(Sanskrit.).  

