+++
title = "005 Dr. P. Ramanujan"

+++
[[Dr. P. Ramanujan	2015-01-12, 18:38:00 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/QUnGrtrKQFA)]]



You may contact me off the list.



Ramanujan  

On January 12, 2015 at 4:17 PM Srinidhi \<[srinidhi.p...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:

> 
> > Thank you , >
> 
> >   
> "This script is unknown to modern scholars."? >
> 
> > 
> > This was Typographical error and I know some scholars who know this > script. >
> 
> > 
> > Can you share me Vedic notation Nandinagari , Does it follow > Devanagari or hasindependent Vedic accents. >
> 
> > 
> > I have seen Nandinagari is written by Dr. P.Visalakshy in this Doc >
> 
> > 
> >  style="color:#808080;min-height:17px;line-height:16px;font-family:arial,sans-serif;font-size:small;white-space:nowrap"> >
> [www.unicode.org/L2/L2013/13002-](http://www.unicode.org/L2/L2013/13002-) > **nandinagari**.pdf >
>  style="display:inline;margin-right:3px;margin-left:3px;vertical-align:middle"> >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > In section2.11 it mentions some accent markers. Can you give > attestations from manuscripts having Vedic signs. >
> 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > Does it have distinct signऌ andॡ and dependent signs as inपॢ . > Does this script has signs for Chandrabindu, Pluta, avagaraha and > Vedic anusvaras. Which website can I get digitised manuscripts. >
> 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > On Friday, January 9, 2015 at 11:31:12 PM UTC+5:30, Srinidhi wrote: >
> > Nandinagari script is Brahmic script derived from Nagari script used > > to write Sanskrit in Southern India in the regions of Karnataka, > > southern Maharashtra and parts of Andhra Pradesh. This script is > > unknown to modern scholars. Manuscripts, inscriptions and copper > > plates have been found in this script.I'm researching on Indian > > scripts & languages.  
> >   
> > Is there scholar who can provide complete information regarding its > > origin, usage, development, manuscript libraries, present > > condition.  
> >   
> > If possible can someone send its standard vowels, consonants, > > conjuncts, variants, standardised book for reference. I need the > > Data on native user and scholar community. Please you send digitised > > images of manuscripts. >
> 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > --  

> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
> ---  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

  


  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
\[ C-DAC is on Social-Media too. Kindly follow us at:  
Facebook: <https://www.facebook.com/CDACINDIA> & Twitter: @cdacindia \]  
  
This e-mail is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may  
contain confidential and privileged information. If you are not the  
intended recipient, please contact the sender by reply e-mail and destroy  
all copies and the original message. Any unauthorized review, use,  
disclosure, dissemination, forwarding, printing or copying of this email  
is strictly prohibited and appropriate legal action will be taken.  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

