+++
title = "002 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2011-11-28, 10:38:34 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/h00Z3gDlAzU)]]



Gentleman,

I obtained the B.Sc. degree (old scheme, with all the threeP.C.M.being major)from the Mysore Univesity in 4th Rank; from central college, Bangalore. I also simultaneously obtained a two-year diploma-in-German from the same college, though I have forgotten the same because of disuse. Then I entered L.I.C. of India, through a competitive exam in the year 1957, and resigned the same in 1992.

I passed the Fellowship exam. of the Insurance Institute of India (16 papers). I served as a Faculty member of the Insurance Institute of India for nearly three decades. When I wrote the National Economic Policy on Wages, Prices and Profits in 1978, I had the unique honour of the Govt.of India, setting up the famous committee, known as the Bhootalingam Committee, to study the policy for adoption by the Govt. My technical papers have been published in the journals of the Insurance Institute of India; and others.

But I branched into research on our scriptures only to ascertain the truths about the wrong representations and answer them authentically. For example, B.G.Tilak dismisses the Time-frame given by Manu, as improbable; based on his pet theories like the ice-cap theory. I have disproved Tilak's contention even with an experiment; and shown Manu as a scientist par excellance.

I have taken your kind suggestions. I have also been seeing people presenting their views; and had a leaning to do the same. I will give short pieces hereafter.

Thanks to all.

yours sincerely,

s.r.krishna murthy  
  

2011/11/28 [gira...@juno.com]() \<[gira...@juno.com]()\>  





> 
> > --  
> > 



