+++
title = "013 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2015-11-04, 21:15:49 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/eNHAWyNOS50)]]



Dear Prof Paturi

  

The inner energy has been well documented in science (Thermodynamics)

  

<http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/chemistry/5-12-organic-chemistry-i-spring-2003/lecture-handouts/07.pdf>  

  

[  
](http://chemwiki.ucdavis.edu/Physical_Chemistry/Kinetics/Modeling_Reaction_Kinetics/Temperature_Dependence_of_Reaction_Rates/The_Arrhenius_Law/The_Arrhenius_Law%3A_Activation_Energies)

[The Arrhenius Law: Activation Energies](http://chemwiki.ucdavis.edu/Physical_Chemistry/Kinetics/Modeling_Reaction_Kinetics/Temperature_Dependence_of_Reaction_Rates/The_Arrhenius_Law/The_Arrhenius_Law%3A_Activation_Energies)

  

[TABLE]

  

The real message is that one can never create Energy, it just changes form. Whether it is in the form of a Potential, Kinetic. Chemical, Electrical and ......

  

Living things have a beautiful bio-chemical systems that behave and perform their function often known as "Red-Ox" (Reduction - Oxidation) pathways. (excellent example - Uniquenone / Ubiquenol)  

  

From my understanding, I would claffify Savitar as the (hv) the energy of activation required to effect the specific transformation.  

  

Yes, Vedic sages recognized it and termed as "savitar" but it is the Science that is utilizing it for all advancements. Just gloating on yesteryear's does not help anyone.  

  

Therefore, the concept of viniyoga was introduced by our ancestors, however, the viniyoga somehow got trapped in the academic rituals, of Brahmins, without understanding and applying it to their lives or the society they lived in.  

  

adnyebhyo granthinaH shreShThaa granthibhyo dhaariNo varaaH \|  

dhaaribhyo dnyaaninaH shreShThaa dnyaanibhyo vyavasaayinaH \|\| manusmR^iti 12\\.103 \|\|



Meaning - One who learns a little is better than the one who have not learned at all. One who memorizes are better than who have learned a little (at least they are faithful to the original works). One who knows the meanings are better than the ones who just memorize. The ones who use that knowledge are the superior ones.

  

In my opinion, All knowledge is useless if it is not understood, utilized, and not accessible at the time of need. (By the way this statement is conclusion of my book, GaNesha 360 - The Science of Smart Living)  

  

With kind regards,

  

Dr Yadu  

  

  

  

>  style="font-family:HelveticaNeue,Helvetica Neue,Helvetica,Arial,Lucida Grande,sans-serif;font-size:12px"> >
>  style="font-family:HelveticaNeue,Helvetica Neue,Helvetica,Arial,Lucida Grande,sans-serif;font-size:16px"> >
> 
> > ------------------------------------------------------------------------ >
> 
> > 
> > 

>  style="font-family:HelveticaNeue,Helvetica Neue,Helvetica,Arial,Lucida Grande,sans-serif;font-size:12px"> >
>  style="font-family:HelveticaNeue,Helvetica Neue,Helvetica,Arial,Lucida Grande,sans-serif;font-size:16px"> >
> 
> > **From:** Nagaraj Paturi \<[nagara...@gmail.com]()\>  
> **To:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
> > 
> > 
> > 

>  style="font-family:HelveticaNeue,Helvetica Neue,Helvetica,Arial,Lucida Grande,sans-serif;font-size:12px"> >
>  style="font-family:HelveticaNeue,Helvetica Neue,Helvetica,Arial,Lucida Grande,sans-serif;font-size:16px"> >
> 
> > **Sent:** Tuesday, November 3, 2015 8:45 PM >
> 
> > 
> > 





