+++
title = "000 rniyengar"

+++
[[rniyengar	2012-07-20, 12:38:59 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/D69hOH3sElk)]]



Dear Members,  
---  
\>27 नक्षत्राणि - 27 देवालयाः  
\>9 ग्रहाः - 9 देवालयाः  
\>This is nonsense - unmeaningful - अन्धविश्वासः  
\> अविद्वज्जनाचरित एष मर्गः , मोहविलसितमेतत् , अज्ञातपद्धतिरियम्...’ –  
----  
\>Where are we heading?  
----  
\>This may have direct relationship  
\>with the social environment during specific periods (For Example:  
\>Various smR^iti's). All I am trying to say, is that all quotations do  
\>not and cannot be used for all situations without considering the specific  
\>variables.  
--  
There is another thread along the above lines in which considerable  
emotional discussions are happening about temples for the 27  
nakshatras. There are well known temples for planets also in TN. There  
are other examples of "andha-vishwasa", including the widely prevalent  
belief in astrological predictions and horoscope matching. I am  
neither for nor against planet-temples nor against nakshatra-suuchis.  
Since my points are different I am making a separate post.  
  
I like to share the following thoughts.  
  
What is meant by ‘meaningful’ when it comes to belief systems. Any  
'vishwaasa' about unseen things has to be 'andha' only!  
  
Perhaps during the Vedic period temple murthy-worship was not popular  
at least as per evidences available in the texts. But several Vedic  
texts highlight mapping of the sky on the ground for ritualistic  
purposes. However Atharva-veda-parishista upholds planet worship with  
metal artifacts and symbols, not just Homa. The contents of AVP could  
have be an evolution or “modification to suit the times” over the  
older nakshatreshti and other such practices. Hence concept of temples  
for stars could also have come up in ancient India.  
  
Actually there has been a very ancient concept of representing  
Bhaaratavarsha in terms of 27 nakshatras. This is astro-geography!  
Varahamihira has modeled his nakshatra-kuurma-vibhaaga on the basis of  
Parashara-tantra that is no more available in the original. As per the  
quotations given by Utpala and Ballala Sena, the country was imagined  
as the back of a tortoise with the central part ascribed to  
Krittika,Rohini & Mrigashira. Similarly the other eight triplets of  
stars in sequence were distributed starting from the East. The names  
of the countries with their regent stars are available. As per this  
type of mapping U.Phalguni, Hasta and Chitra fall on South India.  
Hence it should not be surprising to find a temple ascribed to Hasta  
in Tamilnadu. Perhaps there are such places with or without temples  
all over India. What unified or consolidated our country 2000 years  
ago may not be very forceful today, but we certainly carry that  
culture, even if in a distorted form. We cannot disown it and in fact  
we should be proud of it and preserve it. Parashara describes in  
detail visible nakshatra-upasarga and its effects on different  
countries of India. May be andha-vishwasa of those days. Presently  
the society does not care about occultation or eclipse of stars!  
  
The fact that all the 27 temples are supposed to be in Tamilnadu is a  
historical exaggeration, like place-names getting shifted over  
centuries. For example Prabhasa is now mistakenly taken as Somanatha,  
whereas the original Prabhasa was along the tropic of cancer near  
present day Patan.  
  
For planets also a similar situation exists. Skaandapurana prabhasa  
kshetra mahatmya (I ch 43-51) describes tirthas for the nine-grahas.  
Some geographical locations are also described. It is quite possible  
as people emigrated out of Gujarat, they carried with them past  
cultural practices and encouraged establishment of temples always with  
tiirthaas in other regions.  
  
Sociological stresses and compulsions push society towards abandoning  
older tenets for newer ones. Hinduism being dynamic (not  
fundamentalistic) new paradigms of representing man & his environment,  
particularly the sky has happened over periods of time. The older  
dharmashastras are no more valid, except for some general principles.  
We can never accept today that only people north of Vindhya to be  
purer or dhaarmic than others, just because Manusmriti says so. It is  
the spirit of the ancient texts that matters and not the words alone.  
  
The ambiguity and inconsistencies that exist presently among even the  
orthodox vaidikaas is attributable to traditional shaastras, along the  
Vedic intellectual tradition, ignoring history and geography. Puranas  
and particularly the Ramayana and MBh have compensated for lack of  
Shastraic- geography considerably and provided psychological spatial  
unity to the country. The notion of Bhaarata as a culturally unified  
geographical entity is preserved only and only through temples and  
tiirthaas including those for "grahas" also.  
  
Regards  
RN Iyengar  

