+++
title = "000 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2013-12-31, 23:26:41 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/Mgy9flmV4gY)]]



Dear Dr.Joshi,

Previously also you have expressed your view that MB might have out-side-India localization. I had then requested you to make out a full fledged article providing all the data you have collected, both textual and other. From the few place names you have mentioned, I find it difficult to jump to a conclusion. There are a few names which might have been added into the text at a later date. Since MB is layered, this is expected. Some of the ancient texts name two countries or regions Kuru and Uttara-kuru, the latter appearing to be trans-Himalayan. But the MB-kurukshetra is most probably the present day land of the same name (give & take a few 10-100 sq Km! ). I say most probably, because the largest number of places mentioned are typically Indian; the physical features, Mountains, Rivers, cultural ambience, and even climate is typically Indian. If you are able to demonstrate statistically that my hypothesis is wrong, I will start rethinking! 
Hence the default option for MB studies is that its location is Greater India including Gaandhaara and a little north. You are referring to Ukraine, Lithuania, Croatia, Manchuria as being important to MB. By implication you seem to say even River Sarasvati was not flowing in present day India. I had in one of my previous posts quoted the Utathya legend in MB to show that River Sarasvati as known to MB was flowing near IriNa (Rann-of-kutch), the sea receded and the river shifted west towards Maru. If Lithuanian river names are similar to Indian names, it may just mean people went out of India to that country.

  

Recession of the sea in Sanskrit literature is connected with Agastya in many places including MB.

Please do me a favour. Please post legends about Agastya (both as a person, sage and as star Canopus) available from Croatia, Lithuania, Ukraine, Manchuria, ancient Persia, and other places.  

I am much interested in collecting info on Agastya as known to people living north of 34-37 degree latitude. There is a special reason for this but that depends on the above information.

  

Another request! Please do not make a new post each time. It is very cumbersome to keep track of your breaking thread.

  

Regards

  

RNI

.

  
  

On Sat, Dec 28, 2013 at 4:36 AM, N.R.Joshi \<[gira...@juno.com]()\> wrote:  

> Dec 27, 2013  
>   
> Dear Dr. RNI, I am extremely thankful to you for giving me verses from > MB related to Arantuka etc.  
>   
> Dr.RNI you are very special on this list. I respect your scholarship. > Here is some more material for all scholars to think. I say please > prove me wrong.  
>   
> My research shows this --Arantuka was Ukraine. Tarantuka was Chinese > Tartari. Macakruka is Manchuria. And Raama-Hrada is lake on the border > of modern Afghanistan and Iran. It is the ancient Sarasvati Sangama of > Sarasvati (Harahvati) and Oghavati (Argandaaba). Jambu Dvipa (Indian > subcontinent was not part of Kuru Empire until Jarasandha was killed. > Several times Arjuna was defeated by kings of Jambu Dvipa. Everytime > Krishna had intervened to save Arjuna. Arjuna had war with Ladies > Kingdom which was in the ancient Synkyang province of China, > Archaeological excavations confirmed that. The king of the country > Tus'aara (Tokharistan) was taking care of pantry of Raja Yudhistira in > his Rajasooya Yajna. Tokharistan was in the north of Pamira all way > up). PLease note that Jarasandha of powerful Magadha was killed by > trick of Krishna signalling Bheema. Krishna pacified the son of > Jarasandha and requested him to help Pandavas. MB Empire included > Shaka Dvipa, Kraunca Dvipa, Shalmali Dvipa (Arabia)and the whole > Eurasia. That is why one finds Indo-European family of languages. > River names in Lithuania are Indian river names. The ancient name of > European country Croatia was Sarasvati (H'Rat). I checked with > Croatian professor sitting next to me in Vedic Workshop at UT Austinn. > Thanks. N.R.Joshi  
> In the known history the first empire to rise on the Indian soil was > from Magadha.  
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
> International Travel  
> Travel Guard Travel Insurance. Protect Yourself - Get A Quote.  
> <http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3141/52bdbae21f5543ae17dadst02vuc>  

  

--  
निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
---  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/groups/opt_out>.  

