+++
title = "000 R. Narayana iyengar"

+++
[[R. Narayana iyengar	2013-02-20, 17:18:28 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/gnUGYAj0TeM)]]



On behalf of my friend Sri Michel Danino, I am forwarding the following information. Research scholars and Ph.D candidates of Sanskrit Universities interested in scientific literature in Sanskrit would surely benefit by this program.

  

RNI  
  

Dear friends,



As you will see from the announcement below, we will be conducting at IIT Gandhinagar a two-day workshop on the history of science in India. Some of our best scholars in the field will address the audience and we are sure this is going to be an intellectual feast.



Please consider registering to attend the course (registration is free). If you are outside Ahmedabad / Gandhinagar, IIT Gn will take care of your accommodation (but please send us your requirement well in advance).



We request you to kindly **circulate this information among your friends / colleagues / students** who may be interested in this event. Also, you may please take a printout of the attached poster (A-4 size) and have it displayed in your institution.



We look forward to your presence at the workshop.



Best regards,



Michel



===========================

Michel Danino,

Guest Professor, IIT Gandhinagar,

80 Swarnambika Layout

Ramnagar

COIMBATORE - 641 009

(Tamil Nadu) India

Tel.: 91-422-6451096 / [9843056120](tel:(984)%20305-6120)

[michel...@gmail.com]()

[michel...@iitgn.ac.in]()

===========================



------------------------------------------------------------------------



Workshop on

**Promoting History of Science in India**

IIT Gandhinagar \| 16–17 March 2013





The history of science and technology acts as a natural bridge between humanities and sciences. A respected academic discipline in the West, it has all but disappeared from India, which is regrettable in view of our rich scientific and technological heritage. As a result, the number of scholars working in the field has been shrinking, while popular demand for genuine information on India’s past scientific and technological achievements has been rising.

In this context, IIT Gandhinagar is planning a two-day workshop on **Promoting History of Science in India** on 16-17 March, 2013. The workshop will have leading scholars present their current research and findings, so as to produce an authentic picture of scientific advances in pre-modern India, especially in the fields of mathematics and astronomy. Presentations will include not only specific advances or breakthroughs, but also the epistemology and cultural context behind them. This workshop promises to be an eye-opener to students of science as well as humanities.



**Speakers**

Eminent scientist **Prof. Roddam Narasimha**, Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research, will deliver the keynote address. Other speakers include:

**Dr. M.D. Srinivas** \| Centre for Policy Studies, Chennai

**Dr. R.N. Iyengar **\| Jain University, Bangalore

**Prof. M.S. Sriram **\| Madras University

**Dr. K. Ramasubramanian** \| IIT Bombay

**Dr. R. Sridharan** \| Chennai Mathematical Institute

**Prof. S.G. Dani** \| Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai

**Dr. S. Balachandra Rao** \| Gandhi Centre for Science and Human Values, Bangalore

**Dr. Amartya Kumar Dutta** \| Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata

**Prof. V. Madhukar Mallayya** \| Mar Ivanios College, Trivandrum

**Dr. Shailesh Shirali** \| Rishi Valley School, Andhra Pradesh.



**Registration **

Registrations will be accepted on first-come, first-served basis. **[Please click here to register online](https://docs.google.com/a/iitgn.ac.in/spreadsheet/viewform?formkey=dDBKcHJBVFpWUlA2bF9YVVZKaEFHUlE6MQ#gid=0)**.



**Contact**

Jaison A Manjaly \| [jman...@iitgn.ac.in]()

Michel Danino \| [michel...@iitgn.ac.in]()



  
  

  

--  

R.N.Iyengar

Director, Centre for Disaster Mitigation

Jain University, Bangalore-Kanakapura Road

Jakkasandra 562112

Ph:080-27577203

  

