+++
title = "001 Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)	2014-09-05, 08:36:34 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/nUsO-vS6-0s)]]



Namaste



Some clarifications on the points raised about ‘linear history’ and related:



1.Reg. \< Question on How many Vyasa’s are there? >: When the emergent answer is ‘ many Vyasa’s of different periods’, the immediate question comes ‘ How to identify a specific Vyasa in a give reference , say like – Bhagavad-Gita: 10- 12 and 13: tvām ṛṣayaḥ sarve devarṣir nāradas tathā *asito devalo* vyāsaḥ svayaḿ . . This ‘uncertainty is the basis of confusions in understanding the ‘ history’ from the ‘ traditional spiritual resources’ :: Deriving ‘ charita / vamshaanu-charitra ‘ from the ‘ itihaasa’.

When SB says of 30 Janakas, the question of interpreting Gita \<3-20: Aasthitaa janakadayah \> becomes a challenge in relation to Upanishad : Which Janaka is being talked about ?

Therefore, the link of identifying the ‘Vyasa list’ with a ‘Vyasa tradition’ is a related question.



2.Reg. \< Historic.. and Non-historic \>: To link and illustrate this issue with the Samkalpa quoted - the segment from \< Adya brahmanah… jamboodweepe> is beyond historic conceptualization and frame work. To understand this part, certain amount of faith and tradition acceptance
is unavoidable. Not that it is a conflict. But it is drawing the line of demarcation. \< Shaalivahana shake..> is one model of Indian historic time reckoning by recognizing a ‘Shaalivahana’ as a ‘Shaka –Purusha’; again, mapping it to a Jesus Christ centric time scale needs a relative unit mapping. There is nothing mystical or non-historical here. The argument needs to be Evidence based. \<parbhavaadyah shasti samvatsaraanaam madhye .. tithau> is specific Panchanga model one prefers to follow. There are fifty plus Panchangas in India to provide the references. This is a Dharma-Shaastra issue and religion-faith practice tradition linked.



It is in this layered background, one needs to distinguish the HISTORIC personality and ‘ DIVINITY’ in the part of Samkalpa. The parts of ‘ Mahasamkalpa’ talking about sapta dweepa, sapta-kulaachala-sapta sidnhu
‘ et al has a mix of mystery and faith.



3.Reg. \< Linear Time scale and Basic premise of a history of society
\>: These are deep rooted questions linked to cosmology and philosophy. In linear time scale model, light years and billion human years of 365 days unit are used to speak about the time of Big bang, creation, formation of earth, First life on earth, evolution of human being … and the history of world civilizations. Some where in this line, the reference scale of BCE /AD has emerged and become a debating point in academia. This scale , no doubt is a short unit; agreed. But that is what the human society of current period is seeing and feeling comfortable. A Yuga-Manvantara -Kalpa period time scale is not taken as a comfortable reference compared to the 4000 years date of creation and Biblical time frame. The linear time scale that is being talked is in the context of this Biblical time scale. If one reverts to Indian model, the paradigm is ‘Kaala –Chakra’ – the cyclicity of time. In the linear time scale, each unit and period of Time is unique (vishesha), never to be repeated ! The year 2013 is gone for ever ; it will not return. Where as ‘ Jaya –samvatsara’ repeats every sixty years several times in a
manvantara, as long as Chaandramana paddhati is followed. If the reference is given to a personality in ‘Kaala-Chakra’ model, then the turn-count of the cycle needs to be mentioned. \< Example : ashtaavimshati tame kaliyuge.. \>. The 28^(th) cyclic periodicity of Kaliyuga.. In this model, the given point is visited multiple number of times ; may carry the same name also.



Historiographers of linear time scale (Vamsha – anu charitaWestern ) and Historiographers of Cyclic time models (Purana : Puraa navam ; iti ha aaasa : Indian schools) can not be mixed up in research to provide clarification and consistency for a context. The compulsion in is to see the UNIQUE REPRESENTATION OF INDIAN PARADIGM of TIME MEASUREMENT and CONCPETUALIZTION OF EVENTS FLOWING IN A TIME-SPACE CONTINUUM to Indicate the HISTORY of LAND and CONNECT IT TO COSMIC TRANSFORMATION (KAALA-CHAKRA). It is connecting the HISTORY and MYSTIC (- Mystic is different from Myth!).



In this context and background, I agree with your note reading :\< **SO LET US THINK IN A WAY REQUIRED TO REBUILD OUR INDIAN HISTORY FROM OUR OWN SOURCES (Vedic,PuranicandItihasaSources). First let us refrain ourselves from using the word MYTHOLOGY referring to our ITIHASAS and PURANAS. **>



Regards

BVK Sastry













1.Reg. \< \>:

1.Reg. \< \>:

1.Reg. \< \>:

1.Reg. \< \>:



------------------------------------------------------------------------

No virus found in this message.  
Checked by AVG - [www.avg.com](http://www.avg.com)  
Version: 2014.0.4765 / Virus Database: 4015/8149 - Release Date: 09/03/14

--  
निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
---  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

