+++
title = "011 Damodara Dasa"

+++
[[Damodara Dasa	2016-05-05, 08:17:34 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/RlVCobindDo)]]



Hare Krishna.  
Respected Scholars,  
  
I may say a word here as I have researched in varnasrama and the caste  
system for last 8 years with a view to practically establish it in our  
small community village.  
  
\[Note: Important point is to have thorough understanding of Indian  
culture from parampara and of how really a society works not roaming  
in search for an utopian society on paper - afterall thoughts can be  
had in few years but the resultant society is tested only in many  
generations and the failure is quite disastrous and many time  
irreversible. Thus one should be very careful before introducing new  
ideas.\]  
  
The first misconception about varnasrama (caste system) is that it is  
based on birth. This misconception has started far before the mughals  
and britishers came. Actually we find in Bhagavad-gita that it is  
guna-karma-vibhagasah (Bg 4.13).  
Also it is clearly mentioned in Bhagavata Purana --  
yasya yal-laksanam-proktam  
purusam varnabhivyanjakam  
yadyanyatra api drsyeta  
tat tenaiva vinirdiset.  
There is whole book written by His Divine Grace Bhaktisiddhanta  
Sarasvati Thakura on this matter named "Brahmana o Vaisnava" where  
this point is thoroughly discussed with inexhaustive quotes from  
Vedas, Puranas, and Itihasas. Link:  
  
<http://ebooks.iskcondesiretree.com/pdf/Gaudiya_Books%20/Bhaktisiddhanta_Sarasvati_Thakura/Bhaktisiddhanta_Sarasvati_Thakura_Brahmana_and_Vaisnava.pdf>  
  
The second misconception about varnasrama is that dasatva of sudras  
and others (being servant without salary) is equated with slavery.  
This was not the case but later as the society degraded at some places  
it was misused and this was propagated as if in whole of India is  
slaving people.  
  
Third misconception is that everyone should study academically. It is  
not the case. There always is a major part of population who are not  
efficient academically but are efficient at other works and thus in  
ancient Indian culture this point is considered and they are trained  
accordingly. Thus guna-karma-vibhagasah: train them according to their  
quality. This doesn't mean that they did not know what's there in the  
vedic literatures. They were taught in a different way - by the medium  
of kathas and dramas. I have seen that in some villages of North India  
still many illiterate people know full Ramayana and also detailed  
rules of dharma as given in Manu Smrti. Thus the mode of teaching to  
them is informal. One may say that brahmanas and ksatriyas may then,  
if they desire, exploit these lower class people also. Yes, there is a  
possibility. For that care was taken that no one who has degraged from  
the qualities required for brahmanas and ksatriyas are given the post.  
A child who was being trained for brahmana or ksatriya was under  
strict vigilance and his whole life was kept under vigilance (at least  
till they turn 35 years age) even after marriage. Society used to take  
this care. Thus there was very less chance of exploitation and you can  
see that that system did run for long time. If everyone was just  
exploited by few high class all over India, then Indians would have  
easily and very quickly accepted the liberalistic society. But it took  
an effort of 150-200 years (from institution of Brahma Samaj in 1800)  
for changing minds of Indian people (see PV Kane's History of  
Dharmasastras, vol.5, part-2, p.1680-1710). Practically only the new  
generations trained in modern schools started to some extent changing  
the society - the olds did just stick to it; even the so called slaves  
were very proud of their slavery to their master and did not give it  
up. Anyway this is a big science to be discussed -- how the  
generations are trained and thus made sure that the system that is  
established goes on as it is for generations. That can be discussed  
later.  
  
Fourth misconception is that liberalistic society doesn't support  
slavery and exploitation. Everyone knows that it is not the case. On  
paper you may have rules but practically it is not the case. In  
today's liberal society there is much more corruption and exploitation  
-- women's liberation is meant to stop their exploitation. But the  
result is (at least in India) that they are more exploited into  
prostitution and legalized prostitution in the name of free mixing and  
free sex. Legal age limit for marriage is set as 18 years for girl  
considering health reasons but anyone who has studied in college can  
say that majority of girls have sex much before this age illicitly.  
Thus just making rules do not stop the acitivity. women are forced  
(out of circumstances) to work for livelihood (in the name of  
equality) and for that at many places they need to fulfill their  
master illicit demands (they can't speak against it). These would have  
been considered utmost exploitation of women in Vedic Indian society.  
So we have to accept that there is no utopia and this world is like  
that. By introducing democracy the problems have increased in stead of  
decreasing (a side point to be discussed in detail). Thus if one  
compares then one will surely come to conclusion that previous system,  
if established as it is, was the best possible and time tested.  
  
Another misconception is that everyone is equal - even men and women.  
This doesn't fit with logic at all. we clearly see that nature has  
made differences in the bodily structure, abilities, and mental and  
intellectual setup of different persons. Bhagavad-gita calls it  
svabhava and one's duties are set based on this svabhava. For instance  
by birth women has a particular body that can bear child and upbring  
him. If men and women are supposed to have same duties then it should  
be that one time father gives birth and another time mother; one time  
mother breast feeds child and another time father. This was just a  
crude example. Same is the case with different males also - their  
svabhavas are different and thus their duties are also different.  
Srimad Bhagavatam says -- mukha-bahu-uru-padebhyah -- meaning that  
four orders in society are like four divisions of body - brain, hands,  
belly, and legs; they all have their functions in the service of the  
body and none can be replaced by other. Similarly every society has  
four divisions with their works defined. But if the head thinks that  
legs are of no use and thus cut them then body cannot function. Thus  
when varna just based on birth was introduced society started  
degrading -- brahmana's sons although sometimes sudra by nature  
started working as brain and thus misguided society. So just by seeing  
the vitiated varnasrama system for last 500-800 years one should not  
reject the system of varnasrama but understand that it was not  
properly followed.  
  
Practical point: Here at our place we are training our children  
according to their nature fully based on the instructions of our vedic  
literatures and are finding very good results. One child named Nataraj  
was not at all interested in academic education and was himself  
dissatisfied and troubling others also. As soon as we engaged him in  
taking care of cows and agriculture he became very well-behaved and  
learned things very fast. Not only that but he understands  
instructions of vedic literatures - we informally taught him. He is  
happpy.  
  
There may be many points of discussion but I conclude here.  
  
Thankyou,  
Damodara Das  



\> adage"\*Vanijye Vasati Lakshmi".\*  



\>\> set of questions. \*I did not reply\* for two reasons : I was busy with  



--  
[+91 9737475085](tel:+91%2097374%2075085)  
[www.bvks.com](http://www.bvks.com)  

