+++
title = "015 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-02-10, 09:13:32 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/uYMy_dYdfZo)]]



Namaste



1. While discussion on ‘Vedic Alphabet Scripted related ’ posts have come to the point of SHIKHSAA , and script is identified as ‘ Newari / Nepali Version) , it would be interesting to explore why
SHIKSHAA was scripted in many Indian language scripts ! Because , the
‘Social language scripts’ are a sub-part of ‘ VEDIC CHARACTER SET’.



 SHIKSHAA class of works are Primary and Starting point of The
vast diversity of Education curriculum needed to preserve, use and train future generation Vedic Professionals who can safeguard Vedic Literature and utility applications. For Social usage, SHIKSHAA scaled down is the beginning text of Indian Languages ( Prakrut/ Apabhramsha.. Regional ) at Guru-KUL.



**The critical points on ‘Why Shikshaas of several kinds’ should not be lost sight of in exploring the ‘ Script decoding of a specific shikshaa work’. **

****

**Indian Tradition of understanding is built on ‘Shikhsaa as the foundation of Veda-Shabda Raashi’. Western academic Vedic Research is built on ‘ VEDAS as scripted in several historical time segments. The connection between ‘Shikshaa Shaastra’ ( Articulation of Vedic sound units) and SCRIPTING – Writing –Document preservation ( Lipi-Shaastra- Grantha Rakshaa) is not explored sufficiently from Indian schools to bring out the connections. We have a Bharateeya Bhashaa Shaastra bit we don’t have a Bharateeya Lipi-Shaastra ! The western academic has filled this void. **

****

**The solution to the understanding of Vedas as ‘Yoga’s documented in Samskrutham’ needs o be looked at in this domain. **



2. The currently available 72 Shikshaas, 46 plus pratishakhyas
and the surviving ‘ Paninian Grammar of Samskrutham ( Chandas and Bhashaa) are foundational disciplines which have grown out of the practical needs of the pioneering individuals who began to read through the entire Vedic Literature and make it relevant for social and spiritual welfare. For this team, Vedas and Vedanga tools were not HISTORY or MYTHOLOGY ! For these Rushis and Acharyas these disciplines are living tools of sacred language.



3. This is the point Maharshi introduced in to the West through TM program and bringing Vedas ( Rigveda in particular) as the Science of (Creative) Consciousness. The presentation of Maharshi find a detailing in the dissertation of Freund which can be accessed on the same page where नारदबैठ् (<http://vedicreserve.mum.edu/shiksha/Naradabaith.html>) is present.



 The Clues to understand these works and appropriate use of SHIKSHAA works is detailed in the dissertation : [www.peterffreund.com/Dissertation/Freund_Dissertation_02_Vedic_Alphabet.pdf](http://www.peterffreund.com/Dissertation/Freund_Dissertation_02_Vedic_Alphabet.pdf)
. 



 The preservation of VEDAS was first the preservation of the ARTICULATED SOUND and SCRIPTED PAPER ! A mere recitation of the Vedic hymns in the proper way is believed to produce a spiritual effect irrespective of understanding the meaning of the texts recited. Though the knowledge of meaning is regarded as useful in the performance of the rituals by enhancing their effects, this aspect is usually ignored.
When SHABDA gets Corrupted, the ARTHA gets disrupted. When SHABDA and ARTHA gets Corrupted, then the YOGA OF (VEDA-) VAK loses its efficacy. This is the caution from every Acharya like Yaska, Panini, Patanjali, Katyayana and every school of Tradition.



 Why this much of importance to articulation of Vedic letter sequence and reading properly ? and NOT to the Scripting in a language specific way ? Dr. Nader showed systematically that every branch of Vedic Literature was matched for structure and function by some system in the body, or some particular group of fibres or specific aspect of the human physiology. He demonstrated that the texts of Vedic Literature contain the intelligence underlying every aspect of structure and function of the human physiology. That means the wrong utterance (= aparaadhaat) hurts ( = hinasti) the speaker (= Yajamanam) in body, mind neural level functionality and physiologically. Therefore all the care needs to be exercised in uttering Veda and its applications. (<http://www.peterffreund.com/Dissertation/Freund_Dissertation_01_Introduction.pdf> ) . The practical conclusions can be seen at url : file:///C:/Users/BVK/Desktop/BOOK-BVK-LAT/LAT-Brain-Initiative-2018/Freund_Dissertation_09_New_Paradigm_in_Education.pdf





I hope this helps to make this debate meaningful.



Regards

BVK Sastry



