+++
title = "000 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2016-04-22, 03:18:51 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/G-Fwq6Y3SJw)]]



April 21, 2016



Dear Prof N. Paturi,



I did not have intention to contradict you or criticize your posting or views. If any misunderstanding is created becausecontent of my posting on BVP, please pardon me .

Now about the book Brihaddevata by Laurie Patton.

My questions have nothing to do with author's opinion or findingsin her book. My questions were for my own knowledge. Here is the part of my previous post.



Brihaddevata of Shaunaka contains a large number of devatas. His effort to bring these devatas and their names together in his book indicates that these names were current at his time (around 400BC) in the ancient society. At least some devatas come with their own Ris’is, mantras and chandas. Mantras and Devatas in Brihaddevata are from Rigveda. Oblations are given to a devata, example “ Agnim Jus’Tam nirvaapayaami”. Now there are other two names (devatas) for Agni-Jaataveda and VaisvaaNara. It is said that Agni is in the earth sphere, Jaataveda in middle sphere (of Indra and Vaayu) and Vaishvaanara is in the sphere of the sUrya.

My question was-Are the phala of giving oblations to these three devatasis the same or different ? How to decide? Do the names Jaataveda and Vaishvaanara (digestive fire in stomach) offer any clue to their functions?

Wherever it is possible Shaunaka offers etymology of their names. At other places he tells myth (aakhyayana, story) about their names.

I do understand devotion to one’s Is’ta devata (such as Raama and Krshna) may offer him god realization. Geeta says namaskar to all devas go to Keshava.

Then what was the purpose of all these devatas in Rigveda? Who imagined them? Do they really exist?

Look at the names ---Apaam Napaat, Aja ekapaada, Vaata(wind), Pathya, Swasti, Laaks’a, and name of the historical king Taarks’yais also included, SuparNa, Dadhikra and many more. Other names like Raaka Kuhu, Sinivaalee, etc already mentioned by me. The name of one devataa is Ka (Prajaapati).

Are the words Deva, Devataa, Daivata, Daivam derived from the root Div- to shine, be bright, to gamble, to throw, cast, (polysemy of Sanskrit roots)?

We often talk about Adhibhautika and Adhyatmika level. What is the function of the level Adhidaivika?

In Rikvidhaana of Shaunaka, mantras are prescribed for very mundane problems (not for sacrifice).Please enlighten us so we make progress in our understanding.

Thanks. N,R,Joshi

Late note: Nivebita Raut has explained Adhidaivatain our development from the spiritual point of view giving references from Geetaa. I am thankful to her. N.R.Joshi



  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: Nagaraj Paturi \<[nagara...@gmail.com]()\>  
To: [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Brihaddevata by Shounaka  
Date: Wed, 20 Apr 2016 08:30:52 +0530  
  

Dear Dr Joshi,



The 'was' in



"My question was-Are the phala of giving oblations to these three is the same or different ? .................................................................."



must be referring to a past post of yours.



Can you please guide us to that post where this was your question?

  

On Tue, Apr 19, 2016 at 6:33 PM, Kalicharan Tuvij \<[kalich...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> Agni:  
> Agni is a "D-देवता" (a term from the other thread), i.e. a composite > of a particular set of deities "oriented along" one of its > constituents- सूर्य देव.  
>   
> So in the worship of Agni, सूर्य is the ultimate/ इष्ट देवता, also > there are some other "intermediate stage deities" (as in a cumulative > sum) involved, namely:  
> 1. physical fire. Photon. धातृ । matter. material world. भग देवता ।  
> 2. जातवेदस् । कुमारौ ।  
>   
> Dynamics:  
>   
> Worship of composite deities (ब्रह्मा, विष्णु, शिव, दुर्गा, गणेश, > इत्यादि) is particularly helpful for -  
> a) lay persons who don't have the time/ energy to go into pointed > sAdhanA,  
> and b) those who are into the integrating phase of their evolution.  
>   
> A proper worship (or a shrine), therefore, should consist of-  
> Only one (or none) composite deity, plus any number (including none) > of non-composite deities.  
>   
> (Note: विष्णु is a composite, but his avatAra-s, e.g. Ram Krishna etc, > are non-composites)  
>   
>   
> Who imagined the Devata-s?  
> The Rsis discovered them (as axioms). For example, अङ्गिरस् discovered > ब्रह्मन्.  
>   
> So many Devatas:  
> Only a few are fundamental, the rest are their -  
> a) differential manifestations  
> b) epithets  
>   
> Why क:  
> Originally it was for ब्रह्मन्, since ब्रह्मन्, the one without an > attribute, was supposed to be "not spoken of" (since the name itself > is an attribute) in the ancient Vedic tradition.  
>   
> Brihaddevata of Shaunaka:  
> It recollects the fragmented folk memories of Veda's anthropological > dimension. In terms of thought, Brihaddevata is far more closer to us > than to the Vedic people.  
>   
> Myths:  
> These are the vague records of things that people can no longer relate > to as real. More often than not these myths tell us about the very > chain of incidents that caused the loss of those reals.  
>   
> Adhibhautika, adhidaivika, adhyatmika:  
> This classification is not useful.  
>   
>   
> Regards,  
> > 
> > 
> >   
> --  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>. >
> 
> > 

  
  
  
--  

Nagaraj Paturi



Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA.



Former Senior Professor of Cultural Studies



FLAME School of Communication and FLAME School ofLiberal Education,



(Pune, Maharashtra,INDIA)









--  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**Wall Street Daily**  
Peter Schiff: China Just Armed its Financial Missile  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/57194ab6e14e14ab615a5st02vuc)<http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/57194ab6e14e14ab615a5st02vuc>

