+++
title = "010 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-06-24, 22:58:40 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/oxZbMMSOBE4)]]



Namaste



1. The issue here on \< **two explanations of the word araNya**\>
is the tip of the rocking -problem in ‘ (Samskruth-) Language Analysis’ and ‘ Application of Analytical tools ( Vyakarana- Nirukta :: linguistics –

 semantics).

  Unless the position on ‘Samjni’, namely araNya,
in the ‘pada’ is made clear, rest of the discussion is ‘ fishing in muddy and troubled waters’. 

 Is ‘araNya’ a single integral ‘Samjni’ ? Or is it a ‘ compound term, made up of two different samjni’s and choice processes applied to derive the term. 



2. I place below the understanding that prevails in Samskruth Tradition, under the concept ‘Samjnaa’, तदशिष्यं संज्ञाप्रमाणत्वात्

 ( Ashtaadhyaayi : 1-2-53 : <https://sanskritdocuments.org/learning_tools/ashtadhyayi/vyakhya/1/1.2.53.htm>
) which seems to be relevant for this and allied discussions. 

 Now, is this a final position ? May not be ! For The commentators on AShtaadhyaayi have differing opinions !

 Baalamanoramaakaara says : तदेतत्पूर्वाचार्यसूत्रं पाणिनिः प्रत्याचष्टे ! This idea of ‘ Panini refuting the ‘ earlier grammarians view on the concept of ‘Samjnaa’ is NOT seen in the earlier / other 

 commentators like Kaashikaa, Nyasa …. Did Panini try to keep Vyakarana debate clear of the ‘ Nirukta’ discipline intended for ‘Artha- Nirukti’ ?

 I had raised this question in one of my earlier papers in connection with the Samskruth dictionaries debate. The file is attached. 



Here below is a brief explanation of the deep complex layers in this debate.



 (2a) In any given FINAL WORD of SAMSKRUTHAM ( Chandas or Bhashaa), the broad unit is called ‘Padam’. Padam is technically a ‘ Sup-Ting-antam’ technicality.



 (2b) ‘Technically ‘ Padam’ is part of Vakya/ building block of Sentence ( Vaakya / Kaavya / Sukta/ Sukti) . ( padaatmakam Vaakyam).

 Even one ‘ pada’ sentences can be ‘ Vaakya’ depending upon the circumstance. ‘Padam’ (Vaidika or Laukika) consists of a ‘ Samjni’ – a base unit over which pratyaya, svaras are applied and unified.



 (2b-1) When eka –pada –vaakya’ is considered for discussion,



- The pada level analysis gets limited to the ‘ samjnaa –pratyaya –prakriyaa (including svaras, if needed).

- The ‘Vaakya’ level analysis gets extended to the ANVAYA –SAMANVAYA ( Linguistic contextual construction ).



 (2b-2) The total communication from the ‘pada’ at word level depends upon assignment of meanings to ‘Samjnaa – pratyaya- prakriyaa’.
The communication / meaning from ‘Samjni’ breaks down if the ‘ varna/ Akshara – aanupoorvi of Samjni = the ingredients of given word-base
as alphabet/ phoneme sequence, processes , structure and boundary
are disturbed.

 In the given case, when the given term ‘ araNya’ is analyzed differently to yield different meaning as ‘Not worthy of raNa रण’ / A forest land uninhabitable was not worth the war (in those days , today one may find other resources) ; Not easy to move about ऋ root for movement.’ The analyst has consciously introduced this ‘ Samjni’ distortion. The technical term for this ‘ VARNA- VIKRUTI’ at ‘ SAMJNI LEVEL’. Once root-error is introduced, the rest of the shifts in the meanings is any body’s guess ! and choice !!





 (2b-2-a) The ‘Samjnaa’ level meaning is given by ‘ Loka’ / usage/ Samjni association as discussed in Mahabhashaya – ‘ atha gauH ityatra kaS shsabdah’. 



 In vaidiak shabdas , what should be the meaning of the ‘samjni’ and how it relates to social usage/ convention / dynamic meaning changes in usage ? 

 NIRUKTA provides the guidelines and process of ‘ artha- nirvachana’ = polysemic multilayered meaning derivation of Vaidika terms; Yogaartha is critical .

 Yoga way of decoding Samskruth terms is the anushaasanam ( atha shabdaanushaasanam for vaidika padas). This is ‘Vedanga Vyakarana Sampradaaya’.



 For laukika shabdas, what should be the meaning of the ‘samjni’ and how it relates to social usage/ convention / dynamic meaning changes in usage ? 

 Kosha – Vyakarana – Paribhashaa techniques provides the
guidelines and process of ‘artha- nirvachana’ = polysemic
multilayered meaning derivation of laukika terms; 

 Yogyataa – Saamarthya – Aauchitya based taatparya -artha is critical . 



 VINIYOGA – PRAYOGA way of decoding Samskruth terms is the anushaasanam ( atha shabdaanushaasanam for laukika padas). This is ‘Vedanga Vyakarana Sampradaaya’.



 The common guidance is ‘ yena uccharitena
sampratyayaH bhavati sa shabdah’.

 This ‘ samjni’ is a sequence of ‘ varna /aksharas’ as an integral unit. Example : ‘ araNya’ .

 The listed usage meaning is ‘ forest’ in laukika context. In the vaidika usage, it can be some thing distinct and different. Veda sukta based explanations and associations provide clues.



 (2b-2-b) The Pratyaya and Prakriyaa level meaning ( in Vaidika and laukika) are technical and ‘shaastra vihta. They are linked to ‘ darshana – veda bheda – vaktru vivakshaa – saamrthya- yogyataa’.

 There is enough technical literature on this
issue . 



 The most advanced discussion coming on this topic, is seen at Vyakarana sections dealing with ‘ Pratyaya- maalaa’ prakaranaM /Svara –prakriyaa’.

 Much of the ‘ Vaada – Vivada / jalpa – vitandaa / khandana/ mandana is standing on this foundation. Many times ‘ Acharya –prokta/ asmadaacharya –prokta’ is the final recourse in interpretation !



 This advanced discussion is TECHNICALLY THE UNIQUE FORTE OF VEDANGA SAMKRUTHA VYAKARANA. The Prakruth language grammar models , Social language usage models does not apply here, in this

 realm of Samskrutha document analysis. That is , if ‘araNya’ term is being analyzed, the context needs to be clearly said : Is it from the Vedic or laukika frame ? 



 The integrity of ‘Samjni’ – the Prakruti shabda ( in this case araNya) needs to be clear and predefined before analysis, by the analyst:

 Is ‘araNya’ taken as a single integral ‘Samjni’ ? Or is it a ‘ compound term, made up of two different samjni’s and choice processes applied to derive the term. 



  Unless this position is not made clear, rest of the discussion is ‘ fishing in muddy and troubled waters’. 



 **Flagrant violation of this fundamental principle in understanding Samskruth Terms is made in many modern debates**.

 This is made axiomatically and in
unarticulated/ unspecified mode, in the name of (i)
‘Simplification’ in teaching of Sanskrit . (ii) Making Sanskrit learning pedagogy modeling on ‘social languages’ like

 English Or positioning ‘Samskrutham amongst the classical languages of Brahmi group ( Prakruts /mlechha / Desi/ Apabhramsha/ Loka- prayoga) Or other classifications.

 This Samskruth language modeling error has a historic origin around 17^(th) century and is an integral part of modern Sanskrit lingustics. 



 2b-2-c) **What are the consequences of such flagrant violation ?** Supposedly Scholarly and academic debates and perspectives of interpretation ( *pada-bheda* leading to *padaartha –bheda* and
*mata-bheda* !) which put the ‘traditional explanation’ as ‘ defective , derailed, and useless intellectual hairsplitting linguistic jugglery.





Submitted for scholars review and inputs.



Regards

BVK Sastry



