+++
title = "016 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2011-07-05, 00:46:21 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/CEP7iGtDTCs)]]



Respected scholars namaskar:

  

IMO - Nagari's do not have the power to liberation. It is the residents and scholars who reside in theses places impart knowledge to who desires it. j\~naantvaa deva tu kaivalyaM, na R^ite j\~naana na mukatiH .... etc

  

As this thread of "mkosha nagarii's" was being discussed on this list.; This weekend, I had an opportunity to attend an event at the local Arizona State University. I was surprised to learn that 38% (over 1000 for sure) of the ASU students are Indians. All of them are here for higher learning (MS & Ph.D). Almost none of the had a fellowship for the first year. All of them are attending school using their own funds and have some loan from various Banks in India.A few are totally supported by their parents or from their relatives living in the US.
Majority of them appeared to be from higher middle-class.  

  

Having learned this, I stared thinking, semester fees are almost $20,000 it will take 4-6 semesters to complete their masters. For Ph.D. it will take a lot longer. So the total expense the parents are going to incur will be in the order of 50-60 thousand. Many if not all the students are for their Engineering degrees and already have a Masters from IIT and other well known institutions..

  

I was saddened when I had read about the state of affairs of Ph.D, dissertation in Sanskrit (if I recall correctly, that there are 99 Ph.D.'s on the word "aatmaa"), but the desire to get education from US appears to have become the Gold Standard. One of the important aspect of ":moksha through education" does seem to get accomplished (to become gainfully employed in the chosen field.).  

  

If the prized knowledge is preferentially obtained from the universities abroad, then the foreign universities also need to be incorporated in the moksha nagarii's.shloka as well !!

  

Best regards

  

Dr. Yadu  

  

  

  

  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

****



