+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-09-16, 06:53:14 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/MiL8eRn2Gwk)]]



# Warner Bros picks up distribution rights of Ramayana—The Epic

PTI Sept. 15, 2010

<http://www.thehindu.com/multimedia/dynamic/00193/ARV_RAMAYAN_193335f.jpg>

An animated picture depicting Lord Ram breaking the 'Siva Danush'. Warner Bros will take up the distribution rights of animated feature film 'Ramayana — The Epic’, Directed by debutant Chetan Desai.

Hollywood studio Warner Bros has picked up distribution rights of animated feature film ’Ramayana — The Epic’, slated for a Dussehra release on October 15.

Produced by Maya Digital Media, ‘Ramayana — The Epic’ is one of the most ambitious and expensive full length animation feature film to be made in India.

It will be released in three languages simultaneously across India — Hindi, Tamil and Telugu.

“Chetan Desai’s version of this epic has taken animation films in India to the next level. Warner Bros. Pictures is delighted to be associated with this project,” said Denzil Dias, Deputy Managing Director (Theatrical), Warner Bros Pictures, India.

Directed by debutant Chetan Desai, the film has Manoj Bajpayee, Juhi Chawla, and Ashutosh Rana lending their voices to the lead characters of Ram, Sita and Ravan respectively.

The film promises to be a spectacular audio visual experience far beyond anything ever attempted in India with skills and designs matching international standards of Computer animation and Digital Visual effects.

“We want to take the most popular Indian story to a global audience. Warner Bros, with its reach and expertise, provides the ideal platform to launch this new avatar of Ramayana, where the past meets the future and mythology meets technology. It’s the story of the original Indian superhero,” says Ketan Mehta, Chairman and Managing Director.

Speaking to PTI, Director Chetan Desai said, “’Ramayana — The Epic’ marks the coming of age of Indian animation. About 400 persons worked on the project for five years with the best technology available in the world.”

Mr. Desai said his techno-artists have worked tirelessly to create some of the most complex 3D animated characters and costumes, spectacular virtual sets and landscapes to be produced in India and appear on the Indian screen.

“Innovative techniques and processes had to be invented to give it the epic scale. It has the budget of a full fledged Bollywood film,” he said.

The film has recreated the ancient classic like never before and possesses the enchantment and wonder of the original, presented with imaginative visual virtuosity and an aesthetic visual design.

According to him, Ramayan is a timeless classic and a perfect story to be told on screen. “It’s still alive in the hearts and minds of people. The film is of 100 minutes duration and the story spans from the birth of Lord Ram till he comes to Ayodhya defeating Ravan,” he added.

Mr. Mehta said the film is a mythological adventure, picturised in a stylised and contemporary manner with quality action sequences rivalling international standards.

“With this movie, Indian animation industry is scaling new heights. It is an spectacular audio visual experience far beyond any thing ever attempted in India with skills and designs matching international standards of Computer animation and Digital Visual effects. Art inspires technology, and technology inspires art,” he said.

<http://www.thehindu.com/arts/cinema/article647332.ece>

  

