+++
title = "000 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2014-06-18, 23:12:19 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/VVNwpEMHy4c)]]



June 18, 2014



Shree Kamalesh Pathak and DR. Raghavendra Bhat,

Thanks for describing customs in connection with rituals involving Pipal tree. Please help me to understand certain Hindu customs. (1) Recently Jeshthi Pornima was over. In Maharashtra, married ladies perform Satyavan Savitri pooja under Vata tree. They wind thread around the trunk of three. What is its significance?



\(2\) Marriage of ladies to Ghata (kumbha). Astrologers know that certain men and ladies born under a certain SUN sign will have YOGA of marrying second time. So it is not easy to tell the truth before wedding. I do not know any example of Kumbha marriage removed the DOS'a from the life of a lady. It is not easy to decide. It is not easy easy to tell that this girl was married to Kumbha before her wedding to a man. In short this is not easy assuming that astrology works. Thanks. N.R.Joshi.



---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: kamalesh pathak \<[kamlesh...@gmail.com]()\>  
To: bharatiya vidya parishad \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Ashvatta (Vata) Upanayana_Reg.  
Date: Wed, 18 Jun 2014 15:58:21 +0530  
  

dr. raghavendra ji , namaste,

i am from gujarat somanath a traditional pandit engaged with karma kanda.

i have seen three four ashvattha tree with JANOI (secred thread) and people offer water to their late ancestors through this tree agter shraadhdha,, reason is not known to me.

2nd thing i noticed. when there is some dosha in a female kundali some astrologers prefer Arka vivaah or others prefer Kumbha vivaah, both the vivaahas are performed with such ashvattha tree who is having secred thread.

it is believed that this tree is form of lord krishna - reference of gitaji vedanam samavedoham etc.

more details may hidden with puranas

more if i came to know will mail you,

regards,

kamalesh pathak

  
  

On 9 June 2014 10:09, Dr.Raghavendra.Bhat \<[bhatr...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> > Namaste, >
> 
> > 
> > I saw some Ashvatta (Vata) Upanayana samskaaras in my native > place(South India)(Do not know about other places in India) >
> 
> > 
> > I sincerely want know about this in detail and also want to know why > specially this kind of Samskaaras for Vata Vrikshaas? >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > I am herewith requesting scholars to enlighten me in this regard. >
> 
> > 
> > Thank you. >
> 
> >   
> > 
> > With warm regards, >
> 
> > ***Dr Raghavendra Bhat  
> [+91 8956610988](tel:%2B91%208956610988)***  
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > --  
> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
> ---  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.  

  
  



--  
**Kamlesh Pathak**





--  
निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
---  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**The End of the "Made-In-China" Era**  
The impossible (but real) technology that could make you impossibly rich.  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/53a1c93c4568e493c0e71st04vuc)[fool.com](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/53a1c93c4568e493c0e71st04vuc)

