+++
title = "000 navaratna rajaramnavaratna"

+++
[[navaratna rajaramnavaratna	2012-01-03, 13:33:55 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/p7vSkAqGJiY)]]



  
  

---------- Forwarded message ----------  
From: **Ashok Chowgule** \<[ash...@chowgulegoa.com]()\>  
Date: Tue, Jan 3, 2012 at 2:22 AM  
Subject: \[BEF\] At American Academy of Religion Conference, Dharmic Religions Have A Bigger Place  
To: Ashok Chowgule \<[ash...@chowgulegoa.com]()\>  
  
  



At American Academy of Religion Conference, Dharmic Religions Have A  
Bigger Place  
Author: Philip Goldberg  
Publication: The Huffington Post  
Date: December 19, 2012  
URL:  
<http://www.huffingtonpost.com/philip-goldberg/american-academy-religion->  
dharmic_b\_1144970.html  
  
Last month I attended the annual conference of the American Academy of  
Religion (AAR). Comprised mainly of scholars who teach and do research  
at North American universities, the AAR is, according to its mission  
statement, "dedicated to furthering knowledge of religion and religious  
institutions in all their forms and manifestations." I was one of the  
few non-academics among more than 10,000 participants dashing from venue  
to venue in downtown San Francisco, clutching their Starbucks cups and  
AAR tote bags.  
  
If you practice religion, or you're curious about religious subjects, or  
you're interested in religion as a citizen of a nominally religious  
country, your head would have been spinning trying to figure out which  
of dozens of concurrent speeches, panels and discussions to attend. Once  
you decided, you might have found the scholarly jargon as indecipherable  
as Sanskrit, and at times you might have dozed off. The talking heads  
were the opposite of the ones you see on TV: long on substance, short on  
sound bites.  
  
That said, what takes place at the annual AAR meeting is of considerable  
importance outside the ivory tower. The theologians, philosophers and  
social scientists in attendance determine how religion is taught in  
colleges, universities and seminaries; they dictate to a large extent  
what is included in textbooks at every level of education; and they  
affect what is said about religion in public forums and in the mass  
media.  
  
Given the nature of American culture -- and the fact that the conference  
was co-hosted by the Society of Biblical Literature -- it is not  
surprising that the vast majority of topics addressed center on the  
Judeo-Christian traditions. However, to the delight of people like me,  
the historical dominance of the Abrahamic faiths has diminished in  
recent years. The number of sessions devoted to the four so-called  
Dharmic religions born in India -- Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism and  
Sikhism -- has increased considerably, as AAR Program Units in areas  
such as Tantric Studies, Jainism and Yoga Philosophy and Practice were  
added to the roster since the late 90s when, amidst opposition, Drs.  
Rita Sherma and Cynthia Ann Humes spearheaded the introduction of the  
Hinduism Group.  
  
A few years later, the Dharma Academy of North America (DANAM) was  
created to help fill the gap, essentially creating a conference within  
the AAR conference. "DANAM's aim," says Dr. Sherma, the organization's  
co-founder and vice president, "has been to study the Dharma traditions  
in interrelationship, emphasizing re-visioning and reconstruction over  
description." DANAM scholars attempt to view the Indic religions on  
their own traditional terms, not just through the methods and categories  
of Western scholarship. It is now the largest additional symposium at  
AAR, and its members have simultaneously beefed up the number of AAR  
sessions devoted to Asian religions.  
  
This year's conference also seemed to devote more sessions to real-life  
spirituality, as compared to the analysis of ancient texts, which is the  
kind of thing scholars have typically focused on. The panel I was on,  
for instance, was titled "Mother India Meets the Golden State:  
California Gurus and West-Coast Yoga." At another session, four scholars  
addressed a hot topic that's been debated on this very website: "Is Yoga  
Hindu?" (FYI, the verdict was split between "Yes, but..." and "Yes,  
and...")  
  
These developments reverberate well beyond campuses and seminaries. For  
starters, they suggest that the academic study of religion is slowly  
catching up to demographic and spiritual trends: hello, Hinduism,  
Buddhism and other Eastern religions are now a permanent feature of the  
national landscape, not just because of immigration but also because  
many of their teachings have been embraced by non-Asians. It also makes  
it more likely that descriptions of the Dharmic religions will, in the  
future, reflect more accurately the reality on the ground.  
  
Because the academic study of religion originated in the West, the field  
has long been dominated (to put it mildly) by people born into the  
Abrahamic faiths; those scholars approached Eastern religions as  
outsiders examining something exotic. As a result, the Dharmic religions  
have often been described in ways that their actual adherents found  
unrecognizable. That has changed in recent decades, as scholars born  
into those traditions entered academia, along with American  
practitioners who studied with Hindu gurus and Buddhist monks. With the  
insider perspective now part of the conversation, future students will  
likely receive a more accurate and respectful portrait of Eastern  
spiritual teachings.  
  
These trends have the potential to broaden and deepen our understanding  
of what religion is and what it can be. The Dharmic traditions are  
different from their Western counterparts in important ways. Among other  
things, they approach religion from the inside out, placing spiritual  
practice and direct experience in the forefront, whereas the Abrahamic  
faiths emphasize belief and institutional doctrine. Dharmic teachings  
also insist on the potential efficacy of all paths to the divine,  
something millions of Americans find a welcome relief from bugle calls  
of "Ours is the one true way."  
  
For these reasons and others, religious attitudes are likely to change  
as accurate knowledge about Hinduism, Buddhism and other Asian  
traditions wends its way from the ivory tower to public awareness. In  
our pluralistic, freedom-loving society, that's one trickle-down effect  
we should all welcome.  
  

\_\_.\_,\_.\_\_\_

[Reply to sender]() \| [Reply to group]() \| [Reply via web post](http://groups.yahoo.com/group/bharatiyaexpertsforum/post;_ylc=X3oDMTJxcjhrOTVkBF9TAzk3MzU5NzE0BGdycElkAzgwNzU0MDYEZ3Jwc3BJZAMxNzA1MDQzNjI4BG1zZ0lkAzQ1Mzk1BHNlYwNmdHIEc2xrA3JwbHkEc3RpbWUDMTMyNTU3NTM0Ng--?act=reply&messageNum=45395) \| [Start a New Topic](http://groups.yahoo.com/group/bharatiyaexpertsforum/post;_ylc=X3oDMTJlOG5sczZlBF9TAzk3MzU5NzE0BGdycElkAzgwNzU0MDYEZ3Jwc3BJZAMxNzA1MDQzNjI4BHNlYwNmdHIEc2xrA250cGMEc3RpbWUDMTMyNTU3NTM0Ng--)

[Messages in this topic](http://groups.yahoo.com/group/bharatiyaexpertsforum/message/45395;_ylc=X3oDMTM2am43bHF1BF9TAzk3MzU5NzE0BGdycElkAzgwNzU0MDYEZ3Jwc3BJZAMxNzA1MDQzNjI4BG1zZ0lkAzQ1Mzk1BHNlYwNmdHIEc2xrA3Z0cGMEc3RpbWUDMTMyNTU3NTM0NgR0cGNJZAM0NTM5NQ--) (1)

Recent Activity:

[Visit Your Group](http://groups.yahoo.com/group/bharatiyaexpertsforum;_ylc=X3oDMTJlM2U2dWowBF9TAzk3MzU5NzE0BGdycElkAzgwNzU0MDYEZ3Jwc3BJZAMxNzA1MDQzNjI4BHNlYwN2dGwEc2xrA3ZnaHAEc3RpbWUDMTMyNTU3NTM0Ng--)

Bharatiya Experts’ Forum (BEF)  
Moderator: G. Anil Kumar  
  
Generally, we have free-to-post policy within the group, with some exceptions. Defamation, recrimination, threatening, nudity and other depictions of similar nature are not acceptable in BEF.  
  
Since we have free-to-post policy within the group, authors alone are responsible for what they post and neither the moderator nor the owners of BEF can take any responsibility for what its members say in their postings.  
  

MARKETPLACE

[Stay on top of your group activity without leaving the page you're on - Get the Yahoo! Toolbar now.](http://global.ard.yahoo.com/SIG=15ogqol4h/M=493064.14543979.14562481.13298430/D=groups/S=1705043628:MKP1/Y=YAHOO/EXP=1325582546/L=afe52362-35db-11e1-b3a0-ff494aac91f8/B=LHaKCdj8fdE-/J=1325575346375686/K=SfGSHR8zVHSf_bAMli_4OA/A=6060255/R=0/SIG=1194m4keh/*http://us.toolbar.yahoo.com/?.cpdl=grpj)

Switch to: [Text-Only](), [Daily Digest]() • [Unsubscribe]() • [Terms of Use](http://docs.yahoo.com/info/terms/)

.

  

\_\_,\_.\_,\_\_\_

  

