+++
title = "000 Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma"

+++
[[Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma	2010-10-16, 19:37:38 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/CiIIT2YeEwI)]]



Dear Sourav,  
  
I have the booklet published by Sri Satishchandra  
for private circulation. It contains the details of the  
patent registered in Canada(not in Bharatam, an irony  
due to the govt 'policy'?)  
  
The booklet also contains full text interpretation and  
the gadget drawings.  
  
What is more notable is the author was guided by spiritual  
persons, a sannyasi and an Avadhuta. The trigger was pulled  
by the previous Jagadguru of Sringeri.  
  
More from him during the Veda Vidya Conference much looked forward to.  
About the Welcome Page of our Group.  
Google will withdraw that facility, welcome editable page  
from January 13th, 2011.  
After all, not many have looked into the welcome page contents.  
Otherwise some one would have posted something about it.  
  
Pages and files uploading already withdrawn by the Google.  
Perhaps, after the Conference FISH may find some sponsors  
for a regular website.  
  
Regards.  
  

On Sat, Oct 16, 2010 at 3:01 AM, Sourav Mukherjee \<[sour...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> Dear Dr Sharma, >
> 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > I found this blog post today while googling for Mr. Satishchandra. > Reading this, one can get some inkling of what Mr. Satischandra means > by saying he found a method of generating electricity in the > Purushasuktas: >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > <http://jayab.blogspot.com/2007/02/vedic-power-generation.html> >
> 
> > 
> > Monday, February 12, 2007 >
> 
> > 
> > QUOTE >
> 
> > 
> > Mr. Sathish Chandra has deciphered > the[‘purusha-sooktha’](http://www.ramanuja.org/purusha/sukta-1.html)(which > are part of Vedas) using the Adibhouthika method. It is very difficult > to interpret in that method and he has done it by doing very deep > meditation. Let me take an example and explain how it works. (Please > not that I am not getting into word by word interpretation). >
> The first shlokha of purusha-sooktha reads as follows: >
>   
> Sahasra sirsha purusha:\| sahasraksha: sahasrapaa \|  
> Sa bhUmim vishvato vRtvA \| atyatishTad daSAngulam\|\|**** >
> If it is deciphered normally, we get the following meaning: >
> With Thousands of heads, Thousands of eyes, and Thousands of feet, he > (the supreme god) moves, as all of creation verily is he uncountable. > He is beyond the grasp of the hands of men. >
> Now let us see how Mr. Satish Chandra has deciphered: >
> *Out of the ten directions, in 8 directions excluding earth and sky > and by firmly installing 8 gadgets (alternators) on the circumference > of a circle, which contains numerous positive and negative charges, > such that each one will face their own charges i.e. positive to > positive and negative to negative and by rotating a runner like earth > in a cylindrical way (in the centre) in between them will generate > energy.* >
> 
> > 
> > UNQUOTE >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > I was thinking, should i put this alternative "supra-sensory" meaning > of the sukta in the front page of FISH, along with the pictures of the > devices present in the blog-post? It might generate more interest in > our group. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > On a side note, i am eagerly waiting for Shri Vinay Jha to reveal some > more divya technologies in the upcoming FISH conference! >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > regards, >
> 
> > 
> > Sourav >
> 

  
  
  
--  
Aangirasa/Dr.S.Ramakrishna Sharma. M.A.,Ph.D.(Eng.Lit.),Ph.D.(Sanskrit.).  

