+++
title = "032 B.N. Patnaik"

+++
[[B.N. Patnaik	2009-03-15, 01:09:24 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/_Uyc_LSnqNM)]]



  
Dear Scholars,  
  
About whether there existed a puspaka ratha (which corresponds in some  
respects to the present-day airplanes)or not, I have the following to  
submit.  
  
A technological artifact is the result of a particular application of a  
certain body of knowledge. We have an airplane because there exists a  
certain body of scientific knowledge in this domain, and there also exists  
a certain technology that makes use of it to build a plane.  
  
The question is, did we have these knowledges (scientific and  
technological)or comparable alternative knowledges (in these specific  
domains) in ancient India? If they did, in what form were they expressed?  
What phenomena did they predict, etc? - the usual scientific questions.  
  
If it can be demonstrated that the relevant knowledges existed, then it is  
quite possible that puspak ratha indeed existed. For this specific purpose  
I am not really so concerned about why there was only one and not many,  
although this may not be an insignificant question.  
  
Demonstaring the existence of the relevant knowledges to the satisfaction  
of the present day scientific community may be a hard, a very hard, task,  
but may be well worth doing, since that's the most persuasive way, as far  
as I can see, to show that puspaka ratha really existed.  
  
With best regards,  
Sincerely,  
B.N.Patnaik  



--  
Retired Professor of English and Linguistics  
Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur  
  
Current address:  
1 E, Debonair Regency  
7th Main, 3rd block, Jayalakshmipuram  
Mysore - 570012  
Landline: 0821-2411259  
Alternative Email: [bn.pa...@gmail.com]()  
  
Blog: <http://saralamahabharat.blogspot.com>  
<http://linktopatnaik.blogspot.com>  
Website: <http://bnpatnaik.wordpress.com>  

