+++
title = "004 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2017-12-22, 23:03:40 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/Hq6G2fg6v5I)]]



Namaste



The two statements below are deeply suspect, over stretched and need careful analysis.



There is a definite need and critical urgency to take stock of the Devanagari Samskruth typing- on any system (Mac Linux or Windows) that is mapping Devanagari varna- Akshara to Roman alphabetic system and calling it PHONETIC. 



a) you can type the ***closest english spelling*** and it **converts to correct devanagari most of the time. …. **Works across all software that accept unicode.

****

 **This is NOT sufficient for Samskruth. There are inherent UNICODE challenges that remain unresolved, nay not even addressed in the software’s ! And the fault points , less spoken, better it is. As the statement goes, if the tea has gone wrong by mistakenly putting one spoon of sugar like looking salt’ instead of ‘sugar’, the tea cannot be repaired by adding two spoons of sugar as a compensation !
The entire tea ( = Word processing Software and Standards) need an ab initio remaking to be properly usable by the language community. **

****

** In many of my earlier posts on this topic, I have drawn attention to this point.**



b) \< Devanagari QWERTY is a phonetic keyboard. It works with all other word processors on my Mac, just not with MS Word \>

 Unless you qualify this statement with all the machine settings and version specifications and other font settings etc. Everyone is not privileged to have a Mac and Office suites upgrade !





Making Samskruth walk forcibly on the footprints of ‘English /roman alphabet Characters ( = Making Samskruth a Spelling mode language) ’
and ‘ simulate English likeness ( in code segments for pada-nishpatti /roopaavataara) to call it as ‘Samskruth Programming / Computational Sanskrit Linguistic advancement. 



Summarily, SAMSKRUTH – DIGITAL DEVICE LIFE and HEALTH is surviving at the mercy of ‘ Technologists of software, OS and Standards’, while linguists are serving as ‘ window side observers and commentators ’
lamenting on degeneration of language representation in digital devices. Of course GOI Tax payers money is going on a huge drain , effectively disturbing the shape and structure of Paninian Langauge. ( I am limiting my comment to the context of Devanagari script ; while the statement has a wide applicability across all languages of Bharath.)



Presenting ‘Devanagari’ language script using the ‘ Roman alphabetic characters’ was a convention that was devised by Colonial missionary scholars for Non English Language studies and writing. This method has serious limitations and inherent dangers in diluting and distorting the ‘ Voice’ of ‘Samskruth’. The Patanjali term for this would be ‘
***dushtah shabdah’***. The legacy of defective mapping of earlier period has moved on smoothly from the ‘ TYPEWRITER made’ to ‘ KEYBOARD ( HARD AND SOFT) and is being recommend widely. The recent post I made on ‘ Naabhi – Naabha’ related in which extracted and presented web resources is one example of this. Coming back to Samskruth,
Technologists have NOT given the right care that this language deserves to bring out its critical sensitivity to the level of an accent and an ending that can push the word and sentence meaning poles apart !



I can give several examples and illustrations on this. Anyone interested more on the work carried out by me in this regard and the solutions exploration, please write off line. ‘ Sanskrit is best suited language for Computers’ has remained a cliché till date.



Regards

BVK Sastry



