+++
title = "009 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2017-12-24, 01:33:01 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/Hq6G2fg6v5I)]]



Namaste Shashi Joshi



My responses are indented and placed below. The mute question here to ponder is:



^^^^^^^^^^^

**1. BVK Sastry ( on )** :



------------------------------



**From:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() \[mailto:[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\] **On Behalf Of** Shashi Joshi  
**Sent:** Friday, 22 December, 2017 11:15 PM  
**To:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
**Subject:** RE: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Devanagari QWERTY on MAC OS



I understand your point very well.

^^^^^^^^^^^

**1. BVK Sastry **: Thanks for recognizing the issue.

------------------------------



But many of us are used to english keyboards and for them it becomes very easy to have google input tool kind of solution.

Its limitation is only as much as of unicode font, which is only regarding some missing ligatures .

^^^^^^^^^^^

**2. BVK Sastry ( on **many of us are ***used to english keyboards*** and ***for them it becomes very easy*** to have Google input tool ***kind of solution* )** : 



2a) The privilege enjoyed by the ‘Technologists, comfortable with English spelling mode of Scripting Samskruth, cannot be pushed down the throat of the ‘ Samskruth / Non-English script Language’ to the

 detrimental modification of the very primary and essential nature of script of language. This has a long range devastating effect on the very nature of Devanagari scripting conventions.



2b) There is a ‘ technology – nomenclature’ for this legacy
leading to dangerous end. The technical term is ‘Romanization and Transliteration’. 

 Explore: <http://www.eki.ee/wgrs/> ; 



 For Devanagari there are variant schemas of transliteration and Romanization. (<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Devanagari_transliteration#Transliteration_comparison> ) .

 There are serious shortcomings in all these schemas. 



2c) Here the question to ponder by the Samskruth language – Devanagari script loving technologist should be: How to bring out a ‘ Samskruth Language Appropriate Keyboard and keying in system’.



 On the contra, the entire effort is seen in ‘Force-Fitting
Devanagari/ every world language script over the template of Roman alphabet character set and phonetics’ and call it as a global solution under

 ‘UNICODE’.



 One may look at the way Korean langauge, which has a comparable
phonological complexity like Samskruth, and who have set out their guidelines to resolve similar challenges.

 Select extracts reading below from url <http://www.eki.ee/wgrs/rom2_ko.pdf> : .



There are **complicated rules based on pronunciation that determine the conversion of Korean syllables into Roman and the romanizations** given in the table reflect only the most typical values.



Most changes concern consonants which are often assimilated when used in combinations. The rules differ in the various romanization systems and for reasons of economy these are not reproduced in this report. ***When romanization rules conflict with the pronunciation of a word, prefer to represent the pronunciation***. <http://www.loc.gov/catdir/cpso/romanization/korean.pdf>



10. ***Words of Western Origin*** : **Do not give special treatment to words of Western origin**. Apply the McCuneReischauer romanization rules to words of Western origin, with exception of words beginning with

 the letter ㄹ.

 11**. Romanization of Archaic Korean** (옛한글) Insofar as possible, strictly apply McCune-Reischauer rules and tables for the romanization of vowels and consonants to the written forms of the words when

 romanizing archaic Korean. ***Do not attempt to romanize archaic Korean following what may be the current pronunciation***.





 Is there any constraint for Devanagari Samskruth script loving
‘ Samskruth Technology teams’ and ‘ Devanagari script defending
Indic language scholars’ to seek such a clause under UNICODE for Samskruth ? 

 What would prevent Samskruth teams from seeking a similar frame in Unicode?



------------------------------

  
I agree that it abstracts one level away from the devanagari script, but then anything except a pen and paper would be abstracting away from the life of a script. For, a script is not to be punched with one finger but to be drawn, calligraphied with a flowing pen or stylus.

^^^^^^^^^^^

**3 . BVK Sastry ( on finger Keying in and drawing Script shape by hand )** : The issues are connected, yet separate. There is no need to mix up keying in and pattern recognition issues.

 When the current norm is punching a visual of a script shown on a key, make a stroke to get a screen display of the script, there are design issues.

 Roman alphabet characters are non-agglutinating ; Devanagari Samskruth script are agglutinating and need a different set of diacritic markers to notate ‘ Chandas’. 

 Latin Character based IPA diacritics are not same as diacritics needed for Devanagari.



 Once the narrow space of ‘ Roman alphabet Character set defined space on current QWERTY keyboard is realized’, the second effort of force fitting a larger alphabet set is like seeking a stability on a cone standing 

 on its cone-end and balancing it by placing weights on the peripheral at the top.



 In other words, there is a need for a different keyboard design and layout, appropriate for Samskruth where the script feature has
agglutinating characters and special diacritics for ‘ archaic phonologically complex sound unit representation as a glyph combination on screen and print’. And the hardware keyboard needs to generate a Unicode compliant output. User friendliness is a given consideration that need not be specially mentioned. Is there any team working on this direction ? 





------------------------------





So as far as a ***quick solution for typing devanagari*** ***on a regular english keyboard*** goes, I strongly recommend google input tools. If one is not going to use english keyboard and is used to hindi typewriter or some other layout, then it is a different story. Then we sure need better solutions.

^^^^^^^^^^^

**4. BVK Sastry ( on )** : The current quick solutions for tying devanagari on qwerty are problem ridden . Soft Key solutions and IME are not user friendly , certainly not for a beginner for language acquisition in a ‘ foreign language voice- noise-clutter free mode’.

 I have developed a solution that covers all the expectations marked at point 3 above; and yet is economical even from Indian market user segment. The product is almost ready for launch, soon, waiting for some marketing related inputs. There is a hardware elegant solution option for ‘ Google Input Tools’ – software browser solution model to generate a Samskruth document from direct keying in .



 The approach adapted ( Patented) is to embed a pre-processor to enhance the standard QWERTY Keyboard functionality.

 The ‘ pre-processor enhanced QWERTY keyboard’ provides
following benefits to user:

 4.a) Language Selection on hardware for Devanagari keying in: The preprocessor transforms the standard keyboard to a
multilingual keyboard suitable for Devanagari Keying in ; generates
standard Unicode

 compliant output that can be directly passed on to
any Unicode compliant word processing application, like Word pad/ Word.


 There is no need for any software installation. The user selects the Language on Keyboard through ‘ language select button options’ . There is no dependency on language display and special setting through 

 Taskbar/ complex short cut key options/ Language settings / Keyboard selection and the like.

 4.b) The Pre-processor makes a QWERTY map change to a new virtually changed Devanagari Varnamaala character sequence with easy features to follow, form gunita and samyukta units easily following the

 ‘uccharana’ = a voiced sequence in true phonetic mode.



 4.c) The hardware continue to serve as a standard QWERTY
keyboard SB connect in standby mode, when ‘ language select –special mode is not opted for.

 4.d) The special feature is ‘ Reverse Romanization, Reverse Transliteration’ which delivers ‘ Type English / Roman alphabet Characters with diacritic marks as provided in standards , Through keying in Devanagari Characters. Type अ आ इ ई and get the output as a ā i ī .



**Please contact off line for more details, if this appeals to you** and seems a ‘ No Soft ware installation needed’ solution to keep English QWERTY Keybaord and yet Key in Devanagari Samskruth letters Truly phonetically and generate Unicode compliant word processing document.



Regards

BVK Sastry



------------------------------



  
Thanks,  
Shashi









To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().

  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.



--  

You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  

To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().



