+++
title = "004 VKG"

+++
[[VKG	2014-03-02, 06:15:39 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/vTR6xrXh_0Q)]]



Pranaama.

This was one of the issues, permeating my mind since many years since my childhood. What I understood was:

  

1\. Inclusion of Ksha, Tra and Jna is similar to the most used combined consonants. (Samyuktakshara) evolved over centuries of Tradition, but not part of Vyakarana Scheme or Shiksha Scheme.

In my limited experience of dealing with 3 - 4 Shiksha Granthas of different Vedas, such inclusion of Samyukta Akshara was not found.  

  

2\. Similarly, inclusion of most frequented AyogaVaahas, such as Anusvaara or Visarjaneeya (Visarga) in the Svara List. Inclusion of Am/ Ah(a) is demonstrative.

  

3\. This demonstrative pattern could seen elsewhere. Ka, Kha, Ga, Gha (Akaara is combined with the Vyanjana, which is also called as Mukha Sukhochchaaranaartham Avarna Sahita Kakaara Uchchaaranam.

  

4\. This demonstrative representation of Varna Maala, is secondary to the Oral Tradition. Written form is derived by the tradition.

  

5\. According to some scholars, the patterns of writing including this script of Devanagari are part of recent evolution. Earlier script could have been similar to Kashmiri Script. (I wanted them to give me supporting evidence for this argument, which they promised to give.)

  

6\. As most used Samyuktaksharas are listeddemonstratively,some special ligatures were also formed and this evolved as a tradition.

  

Hence, we call the maala (rosary) as Aksha Maala. Saraswati is famed to hold this Maala in the hand. (Aksha maalaam Dadhaana).

Here A - Ksha meant the number of Letters, which stands as the basis of counting.

Subham.

VKG



