+++
title = "005 Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)	2014-03-02, 20:23:08 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/vTR6xrXh_0Q)]]



Namaste



1. I am also of the same opinion: \< Inclusion of Ksha, Tra and Jna is similar to the most used combined consonants. (Samyuktakshara) evolved over centuries of Tradition, but not part of Vyakarana Scheme or Shiksha Scheme….. Inclusion of Am/ Ah(a) is demonstrative .. the patterns of writing including this script of Devanagari are part of recent evolution \>. The influence of regional languages (Prakrutham /Desi) can not be ruled out. Example :The short ‘e’ , sort ‘o’ from Kannada.



2. The importance of ‘Oral Tradition’ in learning Samskrutham is slowly fading out under the pressure and pervasion of the ‘Roman Transliteration model of Sanskrit learning’ promoted by many ‘Sanskrit teachers’ desirous of ‘Quick speech (tvaritaa vaktaaro bhavema . .. ?! Mahabhashya !) In one of the Universities with a big name, the Sanskrit student has no need to learn uttering of even a single sound of Sanskrit through out the course ! For Sanskrit is taught as a ‘Dead language’ which is defined as a ‘ language no longer spoken by living people and in circulation in society’ (!) . 





3. The rosary in the hand of Saraswati may be probably better explained as ‘ A-Kshara’ maalaa = The eternal immutable sounds. The count of 63 /64 units of sounds under ‘Shabmbu Matha’ attributed and associated with Panini’s name and Samskrutham Vyakranam may be a teaching tradition which links ‘ Pratishaakhya approach and Mantra-Shastra approach’ flown in to the teaching of ‘Vednaga Vyakarana’. The supporting reason being :Learning of Samskrutham was mainly for the ‘Voice training’ critical for the ‘Veda-Mantra –Articulation (ucchaarana)’. That apart, why only three ‘Samyukta-aksharas as ksha –tra-jna’ when several others are possible may be an interesting issue to deliberate.



Regards

BVK Sastry 



--  
निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
---  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/groups/opt_out>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

No virus found in this message.  
Checked by AVG - [www.avg.com](http://www.avg.com)  
Version: 2014.0.4259 / Virus Database: 3705/7138 - Release Date: 03/01/14

