+++
title = "021 Dr. P. Ramanujan"

+++
[[Dr. P. Ramanujan	2017-02-05, 10:47:23 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/ixklvY7xtfU)]]



मनुश्च - **युगान्तेऽन्तर्हितान् वेदान्** सेतिहासान् महर्षयः ।

**लेभिरे तपसा** पूर्वमनुज्ञाताः स्वयम्भुवा ॥ इति



रामानुजः  
On February 5, 2017 at 9:25 AM Nagaraj Paturi \<[nagara...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:

> 
> > 1\. Prof. Deshpande, you agreed that " ideas of impersonal origin of > the Vedas are sporadically found in early Vedic texts". Thus " Both of > these alternatives (which) are different ways of answering attacks on > the Vedas by Buddhists and Jains, who in their arguments highlight the > man-made nature of the Vedas (Pali: isayo mantānaṃ kattāro = Skt. > ṛṣayaḥ mantrāṇām kartāraḥ), and that these Ṛṣis were ignorant and > should not be followed as spiritual guides (cf. Tevijja Sutta, > Tripiṭaka)." (word in parantheses added by me), should be seen , not > as invented answers by the answering schools but as their invoking of > the already available material as answers.
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 2\. AadaraNIya Vidyasankarji, can one say that the word(s) mantrakr̥t > etc. found in the Veda mantras carry the meaning which is in contrast > with the meaning of the mantra drashṭā ?
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > or one needs to do a samanvaya of the expression mantrakr̥t > /mantrakartā in consonance with the idea of mantradrashṭā to go with > the ēkavākyatā of the different expressions in the s'ruti? >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > I think
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > the main point of concern in using either word mantrakartā or > mantradrashṭā is whether we attribute the 'meaning' of the mantra to > be 'meant by' = intended by- the mantrakartā / mantradrashṭā or not. > Can we see any āchārya of the āstika paramparā , while quoting any > s'rutivaakya for praamaaṇya, quoting the name of the r̥ṣi and saying, > 'this is the intention of the r̥ṣi of the mantra or this is the upadēśa > of the r̥ṣi of the mantra' ? or do they invariably say this IS THERE in > śruti and hence is pramāṇa ?
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > On Sun, Feb 5, 2017 at 7:59 AM, Vidyasankar Sundaresan > \<[svidya...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > Indeed, Prof. Deshpande. I am of the opinion that even the uttara > > mImAMsA view of veda prAmANya and apaurusheyatva is a lot more > > elastic than and not completely indebted to the pUrva SAstra. This > > is clear from the two different interpretations that Sankara > > bhagavatpAda gives to the third sUtra, SAstrayonitvAt. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > महत  ऋग्वेदादेः  शास्त्रस्य 
> > अनेकविद्यास्थानोपबृंहितस्यप्रदीपवत्सर्वार्थावद्योतिनःसर्वज्ञकल्पस्ययोनिःकारणंब्रह्म। > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > अथवा  यथोक्तमृग्वेदादिशास्त्रं 
> > योनिःकारणंप्रमाणमस्यब्रह्मणोयथावत्स्वरूपाधिगमे।  
> >   
> > Only the second interpretation, taking SAstrayoni as a bahuvrIhi and > > prefaced with an athavA, would fit in completely with the mImAMsaka > > view of apaurusheyatva. Under the first interpretation, SAstrayoni > > is a tatpurusha and if brahman is to be described as the yoni of > > RgvedAdi SAstra, that is closer to the nyAya position, albeit > > coupled with a svataH-pramANya view. advaita vedAntins hold that > > brahman is nirguNa and not a purusha, so there is a different flavor > > of apaurusheyatva as compared to pUrva mImAMsA. And this more nyAya > > like approach to SAstra would be especially strengthened for > > non-advaita vedAntins who insist that brahman is always necessarily > > saguNa, i.e. ISvara.
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Namaskaras, > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Vidyasankar > > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > >            
> >   
> > On Saturday, February 4, 2017 at 4:57:02 PM UTC-5, Madhav Deshpande > > wrote: > > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > > > 
> > > > > > Thanks, Vidyasankar, for pointing out that there are alternative > > > views in the tradition that calls the Ṛṣis mantrakṛt. This is not > > > only found in the post Vedic works like Kālidāsa's Raghuvaṃśa (cf. > > > apy agraṇīr mantrakṛtām ṛṣīṇām kuśāgrabuddhe kuśalī gurus te), but > > > one sees this view in the earliest portions of the Ṛgveda. The > > > Ṛṣis are referred to as Kāru "maker, creator", and the process of > > > creating a mantra described using the verb kṛ - ( saktum iva > > > titaunā punanto yatra dhīrā manasā vācam akrata I atrā sakhāyaḥ > > > sakhyāni jānate bhadraiṣām lakṣmīr nihitādhi vāci II (RV > > > 10.71.2)). While ideas of impersonal origin of the Vedas are > > > sporadically found in early Vedic texts (cf. Puruṣasūkta: tasmād > > > yajñāt sarvahuta ṛcaḥ sāmāni jajñire / chandāṃsi jajñire tasmād > > > yajus tasmād ajāyata),the particular view of the Vedas as > > > Apauruṣeya is one of the alternative views that develops in > > > Mīmāṃsā,
> > > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > --  
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > > You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > > To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, > > send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com.]() > > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > > [  
> > To post to this group, send email to]() > > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > > []() [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> > For more options, visit [**MailScanner has detected definite fraud > > in the website at "groups.google.com". Do *not* trust this > > website:** https://groups.google.com/d/optout.  
> > ](https://groups.google.com/d/optout) > > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > [  
>   
> ](https://groups.google.com/d/optout) >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > [--  
> ](https://groups.google.com/d/optout) >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Nagaraj Paturi >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA. >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Former Senior Professor of Cultural Studies >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > FLAME School of Communication and FLAME School ofLiberal Education, >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > (Pune, Maharashtra,INDIA) >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > [--  
> ](https://groups.google.com/d/optout)

> [You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> ](https://groups.google.com/d/optout)

> [To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, > send an email to](https://groups.google.com/d/optout) > [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  

> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  

> For more options, visit [**MailScanner has detected definite fraud in > the website at "groups.google.com". Do *not* trust this website:** > https://groups.google.com/d/optout](https://groups.google.com/d/optout).



