+++
title = "008 hn bhat"

+++
[[hn bhat	2009-08-25, 15:28:51 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/21Y-xtKw4A8)]]



I guess Mr. Mrishra has explained the stand point of Mimamsaka-s in  
view of the classification.  
  
The precise answer to the question raised by Dr. Pandurangi is to be  
found in the basic readers of Nyaya itself:  
  
Śabdo dhvanir varṇaś ca mṛdaṅgādibhavo dhvaniḥ/  
kaṇṭhasaṃyogādijanyā varṇās te kādayo matāḥ//164//  
  
Sound is of two kinds, dhvani and varna. Dhvani is produced by the  
playing of drums and vvarṇā-s are produced by the friction of  
articulatory ogans like throat and they are recognised as ka etc.  
  
By the above it seems to be clear that according to Nyaya and  
Vaisheshika philosophy, the classification of sound (in general, which  
is the specific attribute or quality of ether or akasha.) into two is  
based on the source from which the sound is produced. The further  
classification of vvarṇa and dhvani are to be found in the respective  
system or shastra-s, concentrating the different uses and aspects of  
them according to their own ideology.  
  
Grammar, for example, holds the view that there do not exist varna-s,  
or pada-s, independent of the utterance which convey the idea of the  
speaker. Patanjali, very wisely and conveniently defines a word "gau",  
as the utterance by which the hearer gets the idea of of cow.  
According to Mimamsaka-s, as Mishra has pointed out, they have to  
maintain the eternality of Śabda as they do not accept as validity in  
respect of Veda-s a creator to produce them. If produced either by a  
creator, they will become anitya and could not be accepted as valid.  
Hence they had unwillingly to accept the etarnality of varna-s as  
means of validity or as a cognition.  
  
  
The pratyabhijnana the second point raised by Prof. Pandurangi, in the  
second part, does not necessarily contribute to their unification or  
etarnality.  
  
utpannaḥ ko vinaṣṭaḥ ka iti buddher anityatā/  
so ’yaṃ ka iti buddhis tu sājātyam avalambate//168//  
  
Their status is temporary one, and not permenant or nitya, since all  
share the experience that the vocable ka is uttered, and disappeared.  
The recognition as the same ka (as uttered by the other) is uttered  
(this cognition pratyabhijnana) does not consititute permanancy of its  
nature, but only needs resemblance. It does not need the same ka at  
all, only resemblance or similrity in their production is enough for  
pratyabhijnana.  
  
  
I hope this forms a direct but precise answer to the question raised.  
More discussions be found in d different treatises according to the  
system they follow. And more deep debates can be organised based on  
the subtle and hairspliting discussions in them supporting the nessity  
of nitya and anitya.  
  
But the question taken independently, whether such a classification  
sound is nessary and unavoidable will have to be discussed only within  
the frame work of respective systems. Scholars can of their own  
contribute to both views. Basically the difference lies similar to  
that of voice (human we are concerned) and noise both convey the  
sound, but according to the usage of the words and subtle analysis  
both differe.It is necessary to maintain the difference to specify the  
dimensions of musicology (the sound produced by mrdanga and other  
instruments) and linguistics, grammar, and other sciences dealing with  
the different aspects of language as a means of communication, (well  
this can well include the veda-s also which is the subject of sabda in  
Mimamsa).  
  
With regards  

  
  
On 8/25/09, Sachchidanand Mishra \<[sachchi...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  
\> Dear pandurangiji,  
\> I am taking here your first problem.  
\> This is a peculiar problem faced by every branch of Philosophy which accepts  

\> that the Shabda \*Sound \*is eternal.  

\> The problem is-- The sound is eternal but we do not understand or have  

\> \*Shabdabodha  
\> \*at anytime. We have \*Shabdabodha \*only when there is an utterance of words.  



