+++
title = "000 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2011-11-28, 05:07:51 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/W2VWgXGFW4I)]]



Respected Scholars,

Writing on the above subject, Dr. N.R.Joshi has appended to my name the appellation of Dr. I would like to humbly point out that I do not hold any such title. I am just a researcher, who ventured into research to find the truth and dispel accusations that Brahma had incest with his daughter ***Saraswathi.*** Anyway, in four years of intense research work, I could produce two works in English titled Enigmas in Valmiki Ramayana Explained and The Science of Hinduism; and a Sanskrit work titled *VedocChistam Jagatsarvam*. H.H.Shri Rangapriya Swamiji, head of the *Astanga Yoga Vigyan Mandiram,* considered a walking encyclopedia on our scriptures, approved my writings with the remark 'what you have written is new but correct'. And I have blessed by the Jagadguru of Shringeri for the same.



My work contains many researched connotations of words like *mithya* (wrongly annotated as falsehood), and I have discovered correct scientific meanings of some Vedic mantras, which have been so far dismissed as mere *parjanya mantras* by commentators hitherto. I have recognised Manu as a great scientist, astronomer, and mathematician, and on the basis of Manusmrithi, coupled with Bhagavadgita (ch.VIII), I have calculated the distances to BRAMHALOKA, Devaloka and Pitruloka from Bhuloka; and the Rik.1-164 and Yaju.5-35 gives so much of scientific data on cosmography that Adolf Holtzmans and Herman Jacobis who hold that Astronomy is Yavanamuliya are totally wrong; and Vedas and Manusmrithi are great works of Astronomy. It is a pity that most of our Sanskrit Scholars are not familiar with fundamental physics; and therefore hesitate to comment on my work. Those few who are in the scientific field, consider this 75-year old researcher as a rival to them!



Even my work on Ramayana is an answer to various criticisms; and points out to the howlers committed by the scholars of M.S.University of Baroda in preparing the critical editions of Ramayana. An example of misinterpretation is the word *kharaH* is misinterpreted as donkey, on the basis of amarakosha. (It is so used in the now on-going exposition of Ayurvignana). But Valmiki uses the word for aeroplanes: *khe ramhatiti KharaH* (the one that fleets in the sky). You find beautiful descriptions of modern planes! Yet Dr. Mankads not able to understand the word, decide that Valmiki did not know what a sea was! What a pity that there are scholars galore, who even today consider that *sahebavakyameva pramaNam*!



I gave the soft copies of the books to sri Pavan Gupta of Chaukhamba publishers, Delhi, in July last when I was there for the I-serve conference on the 30th-31st of July 2011. He said that I would here from him in a month's time; but I have neither heard from him so far, not does he respond to my telephonic calls. I have alsosubmitted copies to Rastreeya Samskrit Samstan (Vimarsha) for evaluation; and to several scholars since. Only Dr.Madhusudan Jhaveri of Chicago hasresponded so far andis of full praise for me.



I am ready to mail the books for any one who is interested, for critical examination.



Yours sincerely,

s.r.krishna murthy

