+++
title = "001 rniyengar"

+++
[[rniyengar	2010-10-03, 10:10:46 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/1CG5VZmYwGQ)]]



Dear Dr.Joshi,  
No! My work shows the lake to have been somewhere between Mt.Abu and  
Kurukshetra.  
This of course is connected with the location of the river Sarasvati.  
I am aware of the arguments about locating Sarasvati in Afghanistan.  
Also the linguistic arguments of the sound ‘S’ changing to ‘H’ in time  
are well known. To avoid linguistic chronology approach I have  
extensively looked into and still looking at geographical information  
in the Rigveda, which can be taken as a fixed reference for ancient  
geography. Now, how do we say that RV was composed in India (greater)  
and not somewhere else? The key IMHO is in “Iriṇa” and “Nir.ti”.  
Since I have published on the identification of Iriṇa as overlapping  
or contiguous with present day Rann-of-kutch, in refereed Geology  
Journal and in Purātattva I will not elaborate here. Briefly:  
About “nir.ti” the traditioinal explanation is well known. Too much of  
metaphoric language is built around “nir.ti”. However in my  
‘adhidaiva’ decoding it is the deity of disaster, the direction of  
which was ‘nair.tya’. \[Note:MB does not use ‘nair.tya’ for south-west.  
It uses the word dakshina-paschima\]. This word 'nair.tya' was the  
direction of disaster, a post-RV development. Now if Afghanistan were  
to be the RV madhyadesha (IriNa would be southeast) nirrti would not  
be in IriNa and in the Rudraprashna “nama iriNyaayaca” would have been  
unnatural. Hence the madhyadesha has to be accepted as to have been  
around the present day kurukhsetra.  
  
Indra bending the mountain (RV 1.51; 1.55; 2.11) was the dipping of  
Aravallis in the NE direction due to neotectonics. The geographical  
constraints as dictated by modern scientific investigations about  
River Sarasvatī, match with the Rgvedic description of the decrease in  
height of Arbuda as a real topographical change. Hence Lake  
śaryaṇāvatī should be located as correlated with present day  
Haryāṇa.  
  
As an aside; to this day whenever agni-sandhaana is to be done in our  
households, the procedure is ‘sthandilam kalpayitvaa,  
praaciih.puurvam……aalikhet,……,.trṇam nair.tyaam nirasya’. The evil  
present is removed with the help of darbha and discarded in the SW  
direction! This power of self similarity for nairtya direction whether  
you are in kurukshetra, Gaya, Kolkata, Andhra, Madras or Trivandrum is  
due to the localization of some ancient natural disaster in the  
Rajasthan-north Gujarat-Delhi region.  
thanks  
  
RNI  



