+++
title = "000 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2013-10-24, 22:12:45 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/nH25Qgy02aA)]]



Respected Scholars. Namaskar!



Sunil Bhattacharya wrote



" Further the recent work on the date of Lord Buddha confirms his Puranic date and the date of Dharmakirti also changes to the BCE period. Rajatarangini as well as the astronomical study of Prof. Narahari Achar also show that Kaniska was living in the beginning of the 13th century BCE. Kaniska lived after about five hundred years of passing away of Lord Buddha. Lord Buddha passed away towards the end of the 19th century BCE. Prof. M.A.Troyer was the lone western scholar to contestseverely the chronology proposed by Prof. Max Muller. Prof. Max Muller proposed a date of Lord Buddha, which made him a contemporary of Lord Mahavira. Prof. Max Muller also went for the 788 CE date of Adi Shankara as was proposed by Mr. Pathak, as that fell in line with his (Prof. Max Muller's) date of Lord Buddha. The wrong conclusions of Mr. Pathak and Prof. Max Muller had created havoc in the historicity of Adi Shankaracharya also. Mr. Umesh and others engaged in dating of Adi Shankara are completely unaware of the 19th century BCE date of Lord Buddha. Had they known that Lord Buddha lived in the 19th century BCE and Dharmakirti also had also lived around 6th century BCE, they could have been able to get an idea of the correct date of Adi Shankaracharya."  
  

Here is muy question to Shree S. Bhattacharya,

Could you please tell us the date of entry of Shakas into the Indian subcontinent according to your time table of King Kanishka of Kushanas?

According to your understanding what was the reason for Shakas entering the subcontinent at your time table? We would like to get enlightened from your research. Thanks. N.R.Joshi



  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**5 Ways to LOWER blood sugar**  
1 EASY tip to increase fat-burning, lower blood sugar & decrease fat storage  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/52694e1677b944e16166est04vuc)[info.fixyourbloodsugar.com](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/52694e1677b944e16166est04vuc)

