+++
title = "001 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2011-01-10, 10:24:51 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/QqnLmPZFyqk)]]



Apte also seems to say the same. I don't know the context nor the text which uses this compoundतलहृदय

  

    तलः लम् [तल्-अच्]1A surface; भुवस्तलमिव व्योम कुर्वन् व्योमेव भूतलम् R.4.29…-हृदयम्the centre of the sole of foot. http://dsal.uchicago.edu/cgi-bin/philologic/contextualize.pl?p.2.apte.2554623 (Apte’s lexicon)

    From the following etyma, it appears talka refers to 'sole of foot'. A rebus is talika 'inventory' in the context of Indus script.

    Munda etyma: talka sole of foot; tala, tola sole of shoe (Santali) talka = palm of the hand, ti talka (Santali.lex.) ti = the hand, arm (Santali.lex.) Rebus: talika = inventory, a list of articles, number, to count, to number; hor.ko talkhaetkoa = they are counting the people; mi~hu~ merom reak talikako hataoeda = they are taking the number of the cattle (Santali.lex.) Kh<tarwa>(D) {NI} ``the ^sole of the ^foot''. <tarwa>(D) {NI} ``the ^sole of the ^foot''. #30381. <A-tal-jeG>(L) {N} ``sole of the foot''. #593.

    

    talan. ʻ base, bottom ʼ Mn., ʻ surface, flat roof ʼ MBh., (in cmpd. with ʻ hand ʼ or ʻ foot ʼ, later alone) ʻ palm, sole ʼ n. (later m.) MBh. 2. *talla --2(< *talya-- ?). [Cf. *tara--3?] 1. Pa. Pk.tala-- n. ʻ level, ground, surface, bottom, palm, sole ʼ; Ḍ.t*llm. ʻ ceiling ʼ,*lc̣hi -- t*llʻ eyelid ʼ; Wg.tōlʻ cultivated field ʼ, Kt.tul; Dm.talʻ ceiling ʼ; Paš.lauṛ. dar.tāl, kuṛ.tōlʻ roof, ceiling ʼ; Shum.talʻ ceiling ʼ; Sh. gil.tălm. ʻ sole of foot ʼ,talm. ʻ ceiling (under roof) ʼ, koh. gur.tălm. ʻ id. ʼ, jij.t*llʻ palm ʼ; K.talam. ʻ bottom ʼ; S.tarum. ʻ surface, floor, bottom (of pond &c.) ʼ,tarom. ʻ sole of shoe, bottom (in general), dregs ʼ; P.talām. ʻ sole of shoe ʼ; WPah.bhad. bhal.taln. ʻ ground, floor of a house ʼ; Ku.taloʻ base ʼ; N.taloʻ storey ʼ; A.tal,talāʻ flat surface, bottom ʼ; B.talʻ bottom, floor, sole, palm ʼ,talāʻ bottom, groundwork ʼ; Or.taḷaʻ flat surface, bottom, sole, palm ʼ,taḷāʻ leather glove worn by archers ʼ; Mth.talʻ surface, bottom, palm ʼ; H.talā,tarām. ʻ bottom ʼ; OMarw.talaüm. ʻ bottom ʼ,talā -- suʻ from below ʼ; G.taḷ,taḷũn. ʻ flat surface, bottom, sole ʼ; M.taḷm. ʻ bottom ʼ, n. ʻ central board in a potter's wheel ʼ; Si.talayaʻ surface, bottom, palm, blade of weapon ʼ (allaʻ palm ʼ <at -- tala,pallaʻ sole ʼ <patla<pa -- tala). -- As adv. and postp.: Gy. eur.tel,teleʻ under ʼ,telalʻ from under ʼ (< MIA. *talādo); Mai.talʻ on ʼ; K.tal,taliʻ beneath ʼ,talaʻ from below ʼ; L.talēʻ below ʼ, WPah.cur.taḷē; Ku.taliʻ down, under ʼ; N.talaʻ below ʼ, A. B.tale, Or.taḷe, Bhoj.tar, OAw.tara, H.tar,tare,tale, OMarw.talaï, G.taḷe. -- Feminines in --ī-- , --ikā-- : Pk.taligā-- ,°iyā-- f. ʻ shoe ʼ; Bshk.tilʻ palm ʼ; Tor.telf. ʻ roof ʼ; Mai.talīʻ earth ʼ NTS xviii 124; Phal.talīˊʻ sole, fireplace ʼ; Sh.koh.tălīʻ sole, palm ʼ, gil. (Lor.)t*lliʻ platform ʼ; S.tarī,tirīf. ʻ palm, sole ʼ; L.talf. ʻ bottom ʼ,talīf. ʻ palm, sole ʼ; P.talīf. ʻ bottom, sole (of shoe or foot), palm ʼ; WPah.bhal.hattei tali(pl.telī) ʻ palm ʼ; B.taliʻ bottom, groundwork ʼ; H.talīf. ʻ bottom, sole of shoe, hoof of camel ʼ; G.taḷiyũn. ʻ bottom, flat surface, sole ʼ; M.taḷīf. ʻ slab of a handmill ʼ. -- Adj. with --la-- : Ku.talloʻ lower ʼ; N.tallo peṭʻ pelvis ʼ; H.tarlāʻ lower ʼ; -- prob. Mth.tallāʻ sole of shoe ʼ but poss. WPah.kṭg.tɔḷɔm. ʻ sole (of foot or shoe) ʼ; OMarw.taḷaïʻ under ʼ WPah.kṭg.tallom. ʻ bottom ʼ; Garh.tālʻ lake ʼ. (CDIAL 5731). G.taḷã̄svũʻ to rub gently the soles of a revered person ʼ. (CDIAL 5734) P.talūām. ʻ sole of foot ʼ, WPah.bhal.tuāo, Ku. N.taluwām., N.talwā; A.taluwāʻ sole, palm ʼ; H.taluā,talwām. ʻ sole ʼ; G.taḷvāvũʻ to have tender soles from walking ʼ; M.taḷvām. ʻ sole, palm ʼ.(CDIAL 5738) 



kalyan  
  

2011/1/10 Dipak Bhattacharya \<[dbhattach...@yahoo.com]()\>  

> [TABLE] >
>   

> --  
> अथ चेत्त्वमिमं धर्म्यं संग्रामं न करिष्यसि।  
> ततः स्वधर्मं कीर्तिं च हित्वा पापमवाप्स्यसि।।  
> तस्मादुत्तिष्ठ कौन्तेय युद्धाय कृतनिश्चयः।  
> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  

  

