+++
title = "003 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2016-08-05, 00:34:56 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/rbdtDmPmCv4)]]



Namaste:

  

I do not see any proof or evidence for arriving at the conclusion that "agnihotra" can be attributed to this.

  

Explanation is simple and there is no need to create mystery associated with agniohotra.

  

Methyl isocyanate that was released during the accident is extremely reactive and will try to form a stable compound ASAP.

  

May be the person practicing the ritual was far away and/or in an area where the toxic reactive compound did not reach that area.. THAT IS ALL. Indians are champions creating Mystery around rituals. When they do not / cannot demonstrate in controlled environment, they ry to blame it on the pronunciation of the person reciting the mantras.... etc..
This practice has only propagated the Great Business of Swami's and andha-shraddhaa.

  

Few years ago I reviewed a paper that claimed that Plants growth is accelerated when they are placed in the yaj\~na-kuNDa and concluded that it was Vedic Mantra. However, there author had hailed to monitor CO2 and moisture (Humidity) for the control specimens or the observed plants.

  

Hope, some scholars can justify the conclusions in a scientific logical manner.

  

Thanks

  

Dr Yadu  

  

>  style="font-family:HelveticaNeue,Helvetica Neue,Helvetica,Arial,Lucida Grande,sans-serif;font-size:12px"> >
>  style="font-family:HelveticaNeue,Helvetica Neue,Helvetica,Arial,Lucida Grande,sans-serif;font-size:16px"> >
> 
> > ------------------------------------------------------------------------ >
> **From:** Nagaraj Paturi \<[nagara...@gmail.com]()\>  
> **To:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
> **Sent:** Wednesday, August 3, 2016 5:16 AM  
> **Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Bhopal Gas Tragedy and > Agnihotra  
> > 
> > 
> > 



