+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2011-01-06, 07:35:15 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/Epe3vNiKMXY)]]



I am cross-posting a discussion thread on another list.

  

I suggest that the national language of Hindusthan should be Samskrtam which can fuse all the official languages of the Indian *sprachbund* (language union).  

  

kalyan

  

Hindi, Hindusthani and Samskrtam as the unifier of Indian *sprachbund* (language union)

  

January 5, 2011  
  
1) From: "Vasudha Bharadwaj" \<[vasudhabATgmail.com]()\>  
  
I was very excited to see this question on , as I have just completed my Ph.D. on language and national identity in 20th Century India (through the lens of the place-less-ness of the English language). I have tried to address below the questions in the original query as well as those raised by the editor.  
  
The identity of Hindustani is historically complex, in large part due to the history of the evolution of modern Hindi and Urdu. The second half of the nineteenth century saw the emergence of formal attempts to differentiate Hindi, Urdu, and Hindustani. Hindustani was often the name given to a spectrum of different (spoken) linguistic registers that varied from a highly Persianized / Arabified version to a more Sanskritized form, and constituted the “elegant language which is used in every part of Hindustan and the Dakhin, which is the common vehicle of intercourse among all well-educated natives and among the illiterate also" (H. T. Colebrooke, 1873). It was an ambiguous signifier in terms of spoken register (and could use either the Devanagari or Persian script), and was therefore often proposed in the 20th century as the solution to religious tensions that surfaced in the realm of language politics viz. official language and (proposed) national language. Christopher King's \*One Language, Two Scripts\* gives a good history of the divergence of Hindi and Urdu, which established a Sanskritized Hindi as Hindu and a Persianized+Arabified Urdu as Muslim; Amrit Rai's \*A House Divided\* is an excellent discussion of the historical linguistics of Hindi-Urdu. What we might call literary Hindustani is better known as "Khari Boli" and is a recognizably distinct entity; Tara Chand's \*The Problem of Hindustani\* provides a classic discussion of this form and its history. The full-text of this work is available on a site maintained by Prof. Frances Pritchett of Columbia University:

  
<http://www.columbia.edu/itc/mealac/pritchett/00urduhindilinks/tarachand/tarachand.html>  
.  
Early sections of David Kopf's British Orientalism and the Bengal Renaissance also give some indications of the linguistic challenges faced by the early British administration in Bengal that influenced the later  
politico-linguistic developments. I'm happy to provide more references if necessary.  
  
An addendum. Godse's claim about Gandhi's stance on national language is actually quite ironic. Gandhi's name for the proposed national language varied often, though he expressed his wish for a unifying national language in 1906: the various names were themselves in response to the different

  
registers that were coming to be standardized in the twentieth century. Hindi, Hindustani, and Hindi-Hindustani were all the different labels that Gandhi used for the inclusive form of language he envisioned, with Hindi-Hindustani becoming the name he used most by the 1940s. Ironically, this choice drew a lot of criticism from both the proponents of Hindi as well as those of Urdu. The Hindi nationalists' arguments corresponded broadly with that of Godse's: Hindustani was said to be, variously, a corruption of "pure" Hindi, a slang, a dialect, etc., and, above all, a blatant effort to appease a recalcitrant Muslim community. Advocates of Urdu, on the other hand, took issue with Gandhi's resistance to using the name "Urdu" in his preferred formulation, seeing his choice of Hindi-Hindustani as an implicit identification with the anti-Urdu camp. Gandhi, however, argued that "Hindi" was identical with Hindi-Hindustani, which in turn was identical with spoken "Urdu": the difference, he stated repeatedly, lay in the scripts (Devanagari for Hindi, Persian for Urdu, Hindustani could use either). The national language he promoted was, ultimately, a consciously unstandardized form (and consequently problematic), and had many conceptual inconsistencies that made his views vulnerable to criticism at various levels.  
--  
Vasudha Bharadwaj, Ph.D.  
Department of History  
University at Albany, SUNY  
-------  
  
2) From: Sumit Guha \<[sguhaAThistory.rutgers.edu]()\>  
  
Dear colleagues,  
  
Though I am by no means a historian of language I am impelled to comment on both Rittman's quote from Godse and Sumer Sharma's extended and confusing commentary on it (and other less relevant matters).  
  
First as regards Godse: one can infer from the quote that he claimed that there were two distinct languages spoken in the Indian subcontinent – one he calls Hindi and one Urdu. One may also infer that he believes that each had a distinct vocabulary and grammar and that Hindustani lacked these  
components.  
  
This last claim was and is false. Grammatically what is termed Urdu is not distinct from what is termed Hindi: nor indeed is commonplace vocabulary very different. (Consider the words 'murgi' and 'gulab' - there are certainly no current alternatively to them in Hindi).  
  
Academic writing and religious discourse did and do employ distinct vocabularies.  
  
Stuart McGregor, a recognized expert writes that "modern Urdu and modern Hindi ...linguistically regarded, are essentially complementary styles - Persianized and Sanskritized, respectively - of the same language." ('The Progress of Hindi, Part I' p.913 in Sheldon Pollock ed. \_Literary Cultures in History: Reconstructions from Asia\_ Berkeley: University of California Press 2003)  
  
I also recommend that anyone interested in this issue read the articles by Frances Pritchett, S.R. Faruqi and Harish Trivedi on Hindi and Urdu in the same volume.  
  
There is much published on the politics of the question and Christopher R. King \_One Language, Two Scripts: The Hindi Movement in Nineteenth Century North India\_ Bombay: Oxford University Press 1994 provides a good brief overview.  
  
Returning to McGregor's point, we are then left with the issue of \_what\_ the 'same language' spoken across Northern and Central India should be named. Gandhi suggested Hindustani - which derives from the Persian namefor India (Hindustan); instead the Indian Constitution chose to call it Hindi - which derives from the Arabic name (Hind or al-Hind) for the same region. Beyond a point, it is as Lewis Carroll would have said, much of a muchness. (I append an example of what he meant below).  
  
Coming to Mr Sharma's comments, I agree that India's constitution refers to Hindi and not Hindustani as the national language. Beyond that I think his claim that modern Hindi is comprehensible to (speakers of) Gujarati, Bengali or Marathi \_who do not know have a passive exposure to it already_is unlikely to be true. The forms of the verb "to be" and other verb conjugations in these languages are quite distinct from those in modern standard Hindi.  
  
This is incidentally true also of Maithili (not Mathali) which is much closer to both Assamese and Bengali than to Hindi. Marwadi in Rajasthan is much more akin to Gujarati than to Hindi.  
\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*  
The name of the song is called " Haddocks' Eyes ".'  
  
'Oh, that's the name of the song, is it?' Alice said, trying to feel interested.  
  
'No, you don't understand,' the Knight said, looking a little vexed. 'That's what the name is called. The name really is "The Aged Aged Man" .'  
  
'Then I ought to have said "That's what the song is called"?' Alice corrected herself.  
  
'No, you oughtn't: that's quite another thing! The song is called " Ways and Means": but that's only what it's called, you know!'  
  
'Well, what is the song, then?' said Alice, who was by this time completely bewildered.  
\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*  
  
Sumit Guha  
Rutgers University  
------  
  
3) From: "Sanjay Srivastava" \<[sanjays3050ATgmail.com]()\>  
  
These three come immediately to mind:  
  
Amrit Rai (1985) A House Divided. The Origin and Development of Hindi/Hindavi. OUP, New Delhi.  
  
Christopher King (1994) One Language, Two Scripts: The HIndi Movement in Nineteenth Century North India. OUP, New Delhi  
  
Alok Rai (2000) Hindi Nationalism. Orient Longman, Delhi  
  
And the following is a delightful engagement with the topic via Hindi cinema:  
  
Harish Trivedi (2006) 'All Kinds of Hindi', in Vinay Lal and Ashis Nandy (eds) 'Fingerprinting Popular Culture: the Mythic and the Iconic in Indian Cinema'. OUP, New Delhi.  
  
Sanjay Srivastava  
IEG, Delhi.  
-------  
  
4) From: Chris Haskett \<[haskettcATwlu.edu]()\>  
  
On the history of Hindu nationalism etc and the bifurcation of Hindi and Urdu:  
  
Christoper King. One Language, Two Scripts: The Hindi Movement in Nineteenth Century North India. Bombay: OUP, 1994.  
  
Also helpful, though ranging far beyond the questions here, will be the chapters on Hindi and Urdu in:  
  
Pollock, ed. Literary Cultures in History: Reconstructions from South Asia. Berkeley: UC Press 2003.  
best cpbh  
  
Christian Haskett  
Washington & Lee University, Lexington VA  
------  
  
5) From: "Robert Moore" \<[RMooreATRollins.edu]()\>  
  
I know very little about South Asian languages, but I familiar with some of the ways of specialists in linguistics. Such scholars do not ordinarily distinguish "languages" from "dialects" on the basis of linguistic criteria. Everyone's first language is a "dialect" in that the concept of dialect merely refers to some variant of a language.
There are dialects that enjoy so much prestige that they are viewed as "standard" forms by native speakers and even, sometimes, lexicographers. These include Oxbridge or BBC English in the UK, or what has sometimes been called "Standard American English" or "SAE" in the U.S. (though the SAE category itself is somewhat controversial). What gives dialects like BBC Englishprestige are not features of the language that make it superior, but the socio-political power of its speakers. Given this prestige, citizens of the UK may be inclined to think of the BBC English dialect as "better" or "more pure" than, say, Cockney dialects. It is not, or at least it is not in terms of any lexemic, phonemic, grammatical or other linguistic qualities it may have. In fact, the idea of superiority of form orsuperiority of purity are reflections of biases that say nothing about the dialects to which they refer. So, any notion that there is a pure form of Hindi strikes me (again, admitting my very limited understanding of India) as misguided. But it is the kind of thing that ordinary people, not interested in linguistic scholarship, are likely to believe in, particularly if they have an interest in defending the privileges or"purity" of a given religion, ethnic group, social class, etc.  
  
Robert L. Moore  
Rollins College

  

  

