+++
title = "003 S.S"

+++
[[S.S	2013-08-09, 05:28:34 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/QFqoGrD-KrA)]]



Considering the size of the indian education system - looking at juststudent numbersis misleading.  

Also, its not how many studentsare studying samskritam - but one hasto consider

\(i\) how many actually complete Samskritam and continue to have a connection with Samskritam after graduation.

\(ii\) more importantly one also has to consider the public presence and influence of samskritam

  
If one speaks to individual's in samskritam-teachingone can learn about the horrorstories that emanate from samskritam

universities (like in oneuniversity in the north). So, I would not beso confident orsmug about the status of samskritam.



You know that in the business world there is something called an industry analysis.

If one were to do a industry analysis for Samskritam - what would the results be ?



Consider these questions:

a) what % of students continue to have connection with samskritamafter BA/MA-Samskritam graduation ?  
 Connection in terms of actively speaking, reading, writing,
watching samskritam material ?

 if you compare numbers of students who study in school and then compare it to number ofBA/MA samskritam students who

 graduate and then continue to have some connection with Samskritam.

 It may bethat Samskritam is losing more than 99.9% of the students? That is a staggering loss. Does this say something ?  
  
b) How much influence do samskritam scholars have in any modern academic topic ?  
 - are there any samskritam scholars who have influencein archeology,history, sociology, psychology, political-science,  
 or ability to influence what is in a NCERT textbook ?

-how manysamskritam scholarshave any informedopinion on date ofthe Rigveda or Panini ?

 (or do the universities just regurgitate whats in ahundred yearold Indology that has beenbadly reprinted ?)  


c) You mentioned hundreds of journals - then the next question would be howhow many are active journals and what is their overallreadership ?

 Also thislargenumber of "journals" shows fragmentation andshows that smallindividuals/or organisationsare trying to publish on their own individual capability because

there is no other option for delivering their information. As a researcher imagine finding out what is in one journal and gettingan old issue ?

 This fragmentation shows that the universities have not done good job having a knowledge creation and dissemination system.

 Notice , how oxford, or Cambridge have their distribution system as well.

  
d) How many new modern textbooks in Samskritam are there ? is there a modern samskritam textbook to teach nyaya or arthashastra  
 or ayurveda or vedanta or dharmashastra or alankara or vyaakarNa ?  
 If such modern textbooks existed, then both the students and advisors would get ideas for further research topics.  
  
e) How many modern topics are taught in Samskritam - and is there anyconnection/analysis made of the presenttimes from the  
 samskritam tradition view ?



If these most basic of things are not being done by universities, then that means thatthe samskritam academicshave

accepted a colonial view that samskritam is only for the past.



**NOTE: The samskritam pandits in the traditional peethamdo their work
and they do it very well.  
 Its The samskritam-academics in the mainstream universities and samskritam universitieswho have fallen short.**



From the late 1700's samskritam scholars were paid by the brits to dotranslations andfrom then onsamskritam scholarsdid not

havea incentiveto doing anything original.

After independence, samskritam academics get their salaries from the Govt,andjust continue to do what thebritspaid them to do.

That's why indologists and others use samskritam scholars as just small time informants/clerks.  

Over the next decade as the Indian economy grows even larger, the influence of the indologist will reduce even more.

Hopefully, the samskritam universities administrators and academics will develop the vision and leadership to make these needed changes to

developreal samskritam scholars.But that is still to be seen...  

Regards

S.Subrahmanya

