+++
title = "000 Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma"

+++
[[Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma	2010-10-16, 20:06:03 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/vqh2iyvsi6A)]]



Respected Scholars,  
  
Go through the following:  
  

### [Vedic power generation](http://jayab.blogspot.com/2007/02/vedic_power_generation.com)

In my blog titled [‘Am I proud to be an Indian?’](http://jayab.blogspot.com/2007/01/am-i-proud-to-be-indian.html) I briefly touched upon Indian’s glorious past and the abundant knowledge in Vedas and Upanishads. Having said that it is very difficult to interpret Vedas and understand the real meaning. This is mainly because the language of Sanskrit is much more complex than any other languages and each word conveys many meanings. But my simple question was ‘If we have so much of knowledge and intellectual wealth, why can’t we use them for welfare of human beings?’. To my surprise, recently I found one classic example for this. Before getting into the details let me give some background information.

  
One of my very close friends is working for an IT company in Bangalore and couple of months back they celebrated ‘technology day’ in their organization. They invited Mr. Satish Chandra (who has supposedly demonstrated power generation using Vedic methods) for a guest lecture. I also got to know from my friend that he has proved that the output energy generated is more than input energy. How come it is possible? All I know is output energy can be less than or equal to input energy and the efficiency of any system cannot be more than 100%. It was surprised and got curious to know more about that. Couple of weeks back we visited Mr. Sathish Chandra’s institute and got a chance to interact with him for four hours. He explained his work in detail and gave a demo of his power generation prototype. Boy! It was really awesome.

  
Basically the Vedas (which are written in Sanskrit) can be deciphered in three ways. They are Adhyatmika (for general public), Adidaivika (rahasya or secret) and Adibhouthika. The first two methods are already interpreted by many Sanskrit scholars but nobody has attempted the third method. Mr. Sathish Chandra has successfully interpreted them using the third method and using one of his interpretations he has come up with a prototype for electricity generation.

  
Now let us quickly revise the fundamentals of electricity generation. The fundamental law says, when a magnetic flux is cut by mechanical motion, electricity gets generated. If you take the example of simple dynamo, it will have two magnets (North and South) where the magnetic field is created. When a mechanical rotor is rotated in between the magnets the electricity gets generated. Since there would be some energy losses the efficiently is less than 100%.

  
Mr. Sathish Chandra has deciphered the [‘purusha-sooktha’](http://www.ramanuja.org/purusha/sukta-1.html) (which are part of Vedas) using the Adibhouthika method. It is very difficult to interpret in that method and he has done it by doing very deep meditation. Let me take an example and explain how it works. (Please not that I am not getting into word by word interpretation).

The first shlokha of purusha-sooktha reads as follows:

  

READ FURTHER HERE:

  

<http://jayab.blogspot.com/2007/02/vedic-power-generation.html>  
  
Dhanyo'smi.  
  
  
--  
Aangirasa/Dr.S.Ramakrishna Sharma. M.A.,Ph.D.(Eng.Lit.),Ph.D.(Sanskrit.).  

