+++
title = "003 Damodara Dasa"

+++
[[Damodara Dasa	2014-11-10, 17:11:31 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/aNhN4wSU28E)]]



Hare Krishna.  
Dear sirs,  
Yes, I understand that generally sanskrit commentaries are not  
translated in current scholarly field. Yet it is sure that  
commentaries add to the understanding of the original by connecting  
them to many sources. Generally commentary details the original with a  
view to be able to explain it with regard to time, place and  
circumstance.  
  
In many cases commentaries are translated. For example translation of  
Mitaksara (on Yajnavalkya smriti) has helped me to understand much in  
detail. Ganganath Jha translated Medhatithi's commentary on Manu  
Smrti. Nagendra Pandeya (Sampurnananda Sanskrit vidyalaya, varanasi)  
translated Bhattotpala's commentary on Brhat Samhita. There are many  
such instances and I have found these commentaries helpful to  
understand. One reason is that we have not lived in the Indian culture  
before industrialization and thus are not aware of majority of things  
save and except what we can make out by extensively studying different  
texts. But these sanskrit commentators had first hand experience of  
such society and they have elaborated it for people in future. Thus is  
the opinion of Bhatotpala in his commentary on Brhat Samhita.  
  
My wish to translate this commentary is due to the reason that  
ISKCON's founder acharya A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada has  
instructed to apply teachings of Hari-bhakti-vilasa in accordance with  
Digdarsini tika of Sanatana Gosvami and not directly.  
Also we are going to see the translations, also sit with gurus and  
comprehend in accordance with the whole teaching of Gaudiya Vaisnavas  
especially Sanatana Gosvami's other teachings.  
  
Thankyou,  
Damodara Das  
09737475085  

î—“

--  
[www.bvks.com](http://www.bvks.com)  
[www.speakingstrongly.com](http://www.speakingstrongly.com)  

