+++
title = "000 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2012-03-02, 10:09:46 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/meqOzXm4N6c)]]



Dear Scholars,



It is really surprising that Scholars are so worked up on the differences between tweedledo and tweedledee. Is it necessary to find the differences between Humour and Humor, colour and color, etc? Somebody wrote a mightly volume on 'Non-sense'. Persons who cannot think straight always doubt at every plain thing they see.



Now it has become a fashion to talk of decoding of Veda, demystification of Vedas; where there are attributing meanigns first that are not there and trying to abnegate them. This is just a gimmick that one film-producer played. He announced that his particular film is intended only for the Wise audience. So all the mass of people whio had doubts about their own wisdom, rushed to see the film more than once; fattening the coffers of the film-producers. The truly Wise never bothered about the picture at all. For they knew that their wisdom is not the product of the certificate of the film-maker. Now, this is a commercial age, Not merely education, but even God, Religion, Heaven, Sin, everything has acquired a commercial value. so there are people who create doubts, and then claim to decipher them; and mint money thereby. But it is strange that scholars are falling for such stunts lately.



This is very well known gimmick played by the Western Indologists like Max Muller; mainly to deny the Hindu origin of Vedas; as Mahamahim P.V.Kane says in his History of Dharma Shastra. It is the same as the statements by the Westerners such as Hermann Jacobi that the present classical Sanskritis a new-born language, quite different from the epic-language of Valmiki Ramayana, that is dead; which was itself differnent from the Vedic Sanskrit that is a dead language. See his *Das Ramayana*..



I have already shown how those conclusions are merely mischievous in intent and erroneous and baseless as to their content; in my books - unpublished - on the subject. These are mere canards spread by Christian evangelists for supporting their prosyletization activities and nothing beyond that. Their objections to Balakanda and Uttarakanda being part of Ramayana is because the two deal with linking Rama to Vishnu. Else, no scholar of repute can attest that a biography can be complete without the birth and death of the subject-person being depicted. Still all the Westerners have done so; and strangely some Indians also subscribe to such false notions.



Dr. S.Ramakrishna Sharma gave me a book titled decoding of Vedas by Dr. Achuta Rao, of Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Belgaum; for review. I had

almost completed. MY COMPUTER WAS HACKED AND TOTALLY SWEPT OUT. I had to get the system reinstalled and booted.

Since currently I am on tour, I shall not dilate further; except drawing the attention of the scholars to the fact that language is a living force; and hence dynamic; and not a static non-living object.



yours sincerely

s.r.krishna murthy.

  


On Tue, Feb 28, 2012 at 12:02 PM, Hnbhat B.R. \<[hnbh...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> > 
> > > The agreed point in the thread of discussion is : There is a need > > to deliberate on What is Samskrutham ? And how to teach it in the > > current context, for a 'Socially Life illuminating' way ?  
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > 2. Many offshoot points and secondary questions are raised > > from your clarifications below, which carry a mix of views across > > traditions of Vedanta- Sahitya-Yoga - Tantra and interspersed with > > 'Colonial model' thoughts embedded in it. For the purpose of refocus > > of the thread of discussions, and convenience, I am placing my > > responses indented below. **This is critical to restore the VEDANGA > > model of Samskrutham Studies.  
> > **  
> > **Please see below (1)-to-(6) responses indented and marked - BVK > > Sastry** :  
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > >   
> > > > 
> > > > **BVK Sastry - (1)** : This part of Shiksha quote is a > > philosophical view on Vak, from the Indian darshana schools > > perspective. This makes study of any language- articulation -process > > an expression of 'Atmaa'  (Spirit, is a Bad translation for Atmaa; > > Consciousness is too wide a word ) in Movement. ( sametya / i am > > taking the gatyarthaka dhatu in this in writing the translation as
> > 'movement'.),  In this sense, Samskrutham is no different from any > > other language in the world; human or animal.  
> >   
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> > It is not too wide a word considering the philosophical > application/explanation of the verse quoted. As you have stated, > sametya - is reaching, verb of movement, is also taken granted all the > "gatyarthadhatu"s carry the meaning of "jnana" (consciousness > -perception) in itself. If Atma is taken as theConsciousness equal > to the level of परा in the 4 fold division according to Tantric > classification, then this समेत्य is exactly equivalent to the next > state पश्यन्ती in the other classification, fitting into perception. > All the verbs of दृश्यर्थाः ज्ञानार्थाः, - as the common usage across > the languages too: >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > I see, or पश्यति त्वाचार्यः, = Acarya (Panini) knows it. .... etc. in > the classical usage of the word. >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > आत्ममनःसंयोग is the first contact, and next step is > इन्द्रियार्थसन्निकर्ष - which is explained intended by मनो युङ्क्ते > with the intellect (बुद्धि). I think I need not explain this process > again. Then comes मध्यमा vaak, which relates the visual images with > the words. Then comes वैखरी. >
> 
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > > If that were so, there was no need for a Panini-Patanjali > > Tradition to write elaborate rules, just applicable to 'Samskrutham' > > .  
> > OR  
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Now you seems to have deliberately ignored the next part of my > writing, where the languages differ. It is in the relation of the > sounds of speech in convention for each language and the visual images > (acquired in the mind) and the further step the production of the > audible sounds that make the difference.
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > In respect of what you have remarked, another line from Shiksha itself > can be quoted: >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > त्रिषष्टिश्चतुःषष्टिर्वा वर्णाः संभवतो मताः। >
> 
> > 
> > प्राकृते संस्कृते चापि स्वयं प्रोक्ताः स्वयंभुवाः॥२॥ >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > I quoted this as some line I read on the प्राकृत model should संस्कृत > be taught/learnt? As per the above quotation, it is not different in > the speech sounds as it appears.
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > > ***Paninian grammar should be extending indiscriminately to all > > languages of the world (- an error of Language grammar modeling > > based on the story of Tower of Babel in Bible; which was used as > > Primary*** > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > > ***Authority' to explain the 'World Language Diversity / Languages > > of Nations / Parental origin Inferiority of the Indo-european > > branch in which Samskrutham -all Indian languages are placed by the > > authority of Bible; and made monumental in Monier Williams > > Dictionary !***  
> >   
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > In fact Paniian system of Grammar was tried on explaining the grammar > of German language and it is said it was successful. It is this system > of encoding rediscovered with set theory, that made Paninian system > attractive to the modern IT world.
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > The words and their association (which a relative formation with the > speech sounds unique to each language) and is a matter of dilation for > the renowned work on the philosophy of language by Bhartrihari, with > appropriate title वाक्य-पदीय - The topic related with sentence and > words.
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > So universal grammar was a concept of by gone days with common factors > of perception through the sense organs and their expression across the > language systems. Right now I cannot give the reference, there was an > attempt. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > > Please note the point stated in my response paragraph: at the वैखरी > > the languages differ and each have their meaning associated with > > speech sounds with it. So each language has got its own grammarian > > like Sanskrit has got Panini. As means of communication, Sanskrit is > > not at all different from other languages. Their association with > > the speech sounds with the meanings, that makes the difference. >
> 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > And for Panini, Patanjali, there were many other grammarians before > and after Panini and Patanjali, and Panini is honored as it is > intended to bring Vedic literature within its purview. But not devoted > exclusively to Vedic Literature, though some forms are taken up for > explanation. And because of this feature, it is considered as वेदाङ्ग > as compared to other grammars. It is obvious that his grammar explains > majority of the words with reference to their association of meaning > with the forms (but not comprehensive of the whole of words) what we > call संस्कृत today.
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > >   
> > \*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*  
> > > > 
> > > > > 
> > > > > > 
> > > > > > 
> > > > > > 
> > > > > > 
> > > > > > 
> > > > > > ^^^^^^^^^^^  
> > >   
> > > **BVK Sastry (2) On text of Shikshaa kaarikaa** : I seem to have > > > a different reading for second line \< sa tu > > > Sthana-prayatnaabhyaam, svara-vyanjanataam gatah>. Unless you are > > > jumping lines. For the purpose of this discussion, where I am > > > seeking 'Vedanga Model of Samskrutham studies to be restored ( at > > > least in Veda Patha Shalas to begin with) , what you have > > > mentioned here is helpful.  
> > > > > > 
> > > > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > There are different versions of the same Shiksha, A Rigveda version, > and Yajurveda version, I have consulted, but I could not find the > reading you have quoted in both. But read only as I have given, it is > found in Agnipurana also. (only with difference in numbering) and in > the versions with commentaries Prakashika and Pancika.(No.7 in both). >
> 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > > 
> > > > > > 
> > > > > > 
> > > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > > 
> > > > > > 
> > > > > > 
> > > > > > It is the last stage, वैखरी in which languages differ with the > > > conventional meaning it denotes as per the fixed system. **Hence > > > the process of speech production is not unique to संस्कृत, **but > > > **commomnly applicable to any language using audible speech > > > sounds.** > > > > > > 
> > > > > > 
> > > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > ^^^^^^^^^^^  
> >   
> > **BVK Sastry (3) On Vaikhari - Speech production is NOT unique to > > Samskrutham ?!** : What is that ' unique thing which makes language > > differentiation' at Vaikahri stage ? If the seeds were NOT already > > there in the previous stages ? Karya-Karana Bhava is vitiated. The > > speech production process as a physiological process may look > > similar; > > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > That makes different the vocables and vocabularies different used in > different languages. Otherwise they have common speech production > process.
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > > but still they are NOT Same ! The speech processes get their UNIQUE > > FEATURES right from the phase \<मनो युङ्क्ते विवक्षया \>. The seeds > > for this \<मनो युङ्क्ते विवक्षया \> are deep rooted in \< Shabda > > smriti / Buddhi / Chitta \> .
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > As I said this is the psychological process of production of speech > according to the language philosophers of Sanskrit Language, >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > > This is far beyond the reach of current medical sciences which stop > > at the subtle neurological signal measurement. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >   
> इन्द्रियार्थसंनिकर्ष and आत्ममनःसंयोग which is beyond the physical > process, but not beyond the psychological process. Neurological > process only supports the process to be stored in the brain (the > physical storage disk) than the mind or --psyche >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > > If one is deliberating Language on the other side of Body, then
> > the discussion needs to be of a different order and terminology. > > The context of the present discussion is not the right one for > > further elaboration on \< Shabda -Brahma \> related.  
> >   
> > \*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*  
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > > 
> > > > > > 
> > > > > > Body language is in included in the earlier steps of the process, > > > of audible speech sounds of a language. So this is again divided > > > by the Indian philosophers of language, as परा, पश्यन्ती, मध्यमा, > > > वैखरी - and only the last one of speech is utilized by human > > > beings. Whether it be called French, English, or संस्कृतम् or > > > देवभाषा. > > > > > > 
> > > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > ^^^^^^^^^^^  
> >   
> > **BVK Sastry (4) On Body Language - Language Differentiation and > > Subtle levels of Language** : I beg to differ from you on this > > point. Body-Language translates to Samskrutham as 'Abhinaya /
> > aangika ' under Natya related ; and in stage craft (Naataka > > Prayoga), it would be called ' anga - cheshtaa '. The > > Bhashaa-Darshana (Panini-Patanjali) and Bhaava- Vimarsha > > (Bharatam) are different disciplines.  
> >   
> > And about para -pashyantee-madhyamaa-vaikharee, the mapping of > > 'Tureeyam Vaacham' in Patanjali to the Tantra model of 'Four > > subtle stages of Vaak / Mantra yoga ' is NOT a right model of > > understanding. It is NOT supported by Practice.  
> >   
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > It is not entirely out of practice as I have explained earlier. It is > the only the explanation differ with respect of Tantric view in mind. > वाक्यपदीय seems take it in the sense when he says: >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > वैखर्या मध्यमायाश्च इति कारिकायां त्रय्या वाचः परं पदम्। >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > which has been the last phase of speech is वैखरी which audible sound > production associated with the visual meaning in the मध्यमा state. > which explains the different phases of expression of ideas with the > words. >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > > The appropriate linking would be from Gita \< *Indriyani paranyahuh > > indriyebhyah param manah*. Manasastu para buddhih yo buddheh > > paratestu sah \> where gradual transcendence from peripheral Gross > > Speech ( Vag-indriya) to Subtlest level (Buddhi) and Beyond ( Atma) > > is pointed. This gels with the shiksha quote provided by you earlier > > and what you have noted below. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Thanks for the quotation, which also supports the आत्ममनःसंयोग and > इन्द्रियार्थसंनिकर्ष as the inner process. >
> 
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > > \< प्रातःसवनयोगं तं छन्दोगायत्रमाश्रितम् ॥७॥ \> .  
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > This has to do with the pitch of छन्दस् in the recitation of छन्दः. > and it is not common to other languages. continues with relation with > प्रातःसवन, माध्यन्दिनसवन and तृतीयसवन, which is in accordance with the > त्रिषवणस्नायी वेदाध्यायी. >
> 
> > 
> > It is evident by its tone and common to both Rik and Yajus > (irrespective of its difference of verses in other respects). And > forms uniqueness of Vedic Sanskrit if it can be called so, of which > this is work is considered as वेदाङ्ग, in compliance with व्याकरण and > निरुक्त (related with articulated words and their association). There > are specific texts for articulation of वेद-s called प्रातिशाख्य-s > which also have peculiar characters in dealing with the articulation > and accentuation system of वेद-s common to certain शाखा-s. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Sorry for the lengthy reply. >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > --  
> *Dr. Hari Narayana Bhat B.R. M.A., Ph.D.,  
> ***Research Scholar,  
> ** >
> 
> > Ecole française d'Extrême-OrientCentre de Pondichéry >
> 
> > 
> > 16 & 19, Rue Dumas >
> 
> > 
> > Pondichéry - 605 001 >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> >   
> > --  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google  
> Groups "Foundation for Indian Scientific Heritage" group.  
> To post to this group, send email to  
> [foundation-for-india...@googlegroups.com]()  
> To unsubscribe from this group, send email to  
> [foundation-for-indian-scie...@googlegroups.com]()  
> For more options, visit this group at  
> <http://groups.google.co.in/group/foundation-for-indian-scientific-heritage?hl=en?hl=en-GB>  
> HERITAGE AWARENESS MAKES AN ENLIGHTENED CITIZEN. >
> 
> > 

  

