+++
title = "008 Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma"

+++
[[Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma	2010-07-09, 16:56:43 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/nLcDwt4CVJc)]]



नम: परमऋषिभ्यो नम: परमऋषिभ्य:  

**\>There is connection among Jyotisam, Vedanta and Ayurveda --  
**

**\>more on Ayurveda when there will be a related question from scholars .  
Very true. But why vedanta here?  
1)"द्वे विद्ये वेदितव्ये " makes it very clear that all associated vidyas should be mastered. And that each of *these two* has its own place.  
2) That everything is interconnected. (Here vedanta fits in. But each level and related problems have level-specific approach and remedy.)  
3) That these two vidyas cannot be mastered without the six auxiliary disciplines(shadangas).  
4)And that upa-vedas deal with the "Technology" aspect of Apara Vidya.  
  
In kerala Tradition, an astrologer knows medicinal remedies(Ayurveda) and also matra shastra based remedies; a vaidya knows astrology and mantra shastra; a mantrika knows astrology and prayoga related medicines.  
  
Astrology-Ayurveda-Mantra Shastra form a triangular discipline, as it were. There are many "Karma-Vipaka Texts" and "Lal Kitab" like texts which provide excellent solutions for day to day ailments and chronic diseases.  
  
Indeed, this is a rewarding area of multidisciplinary research.  
Esteemed scholars may consider participating in the International Conference on Veda Vidya.  
For details go to :  
<http://www.scribd.com/doc/33618920/CFP-Vedic>  
  
**

2010/7/9 subrahmanyam korada \<[kora...@gmail.com]()\>  



> 
> > It consumes more pages to go into that aspect and I shall offer more
> on Ayurveda when there will be a related question from scholars . >
> 



  
  
  
--  
Aangirasa/Dr.S.Ramakrishna Sharma. M.A.,Ph.D.(Eng.Lit.),Ph.D.(Sanskrit.).  

