+++
title = "000 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2016-03-23, 02:09:33 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/4QTUSn6p3AY)]]



March 22, 2016



Respected scholars, Namaskar!

Brihaddevataa of Shaunaka listed a large number of Devataas. Some of them are Raakaa, Kuhu, Gumgu, SiNeevaali, Amshumati and many more. Do they exist or are they hypothetical? Brihaddevataa explains nature of some of them, others are explained through myth.

On the other hand for MImAmsA deities are a purely hypothetical entity, posited for the sake of sacrifice, which would not be an act of ‘sacrifice’ unless there were a deity to whom the offering is made. Yet even with this proviso, for MImaAmsA deities are clearly subordinate--they have no physical body, they are neither satisfied nor dissatisfied, nor do they reward and punish people as the result of sacrifice (from the book Myth as Argument-Laurie Patton).

If we stretch the logic to deities (Graha devataas) of planets from Jyotis’a shAstra, rituals (Ashubha graha shAnti) may not produce any effect. That is why we are repeatedly told that one cannot avoid the Ashubha, only one can decrease its intensity. And as always there is the all explaining law of PUrva karma from previous birth.

We are sorry. We did the ritual of Shaanti but your Purva karma was very body. Ashubha did not go away. Here all arguments and questions stopped because ritualtook refugeto the unknown world of Purvakarma. Thanks. N. R. Joshi

  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**nowbuzzing**  
Horsing Around: Insane Photos of Ideas Gone Wrong  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/56f1ad627d6db2d62063cst01vuc)<http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/56f1ad627d6db2d62063cst01vuc>

