+++
title = "007 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2016-03-31, 02:39:05 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/4QTUSn6p3AY)]]



  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: Vidyasankar Sundaresan \<[svidya...@gmail.com]()\>  
To: भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत् \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
Subject: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Brihaddevataa deities  
Date: Tue, 22 Mar 2016 17:17:13 -0700 (PDT)  
  
Dear Sri Joshi,  
  
It's unclear to me whether your query/comment is about the Brihaddevataa or about the Purva Mimamsa view of yajnaphala. In any case, do consider that the Purva Mimamsa position is not the last word within the Vedic tradition about the reality and role of the devatAs. The yoga school has something to say independently about the ishta-devata. There is also an entire adhikarana in the Brahmasutras about the existence, function and eligibility of the these deities for Brahman knowledge. Sankaracharya even quotes the yogasutra, svAdhyAyAd ishTadevatA saMprayogaH in this context and holds that the mantra-drashTAraH of the Veda had to have had a similar vyavahAra with the devatAs of the Veda mantras. Other commentators like Ramanuja and Madhva have their own interpretations to offer, which are not all that different on this particular topic.  
  
What I wanted to say was that within the Indian traditions, it is not as simple as some grahashAnti like ritual not having immediate effect because of a presumed non existence or the stronger influence of previous karman. The yoga and Vedanta schools of thought, which have had a greater influence on popular religious beliefs and practices, have other perspectives to offer than the strict Purva Mimamsa view.  
  

Best regards,  
Vidyasankar  
  
--  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.  
  

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**Wall Street Daily**  
Peter Schiff: China Just Armed its Financial Missile  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/56fc405f79a01405f7a8dst01vuc)<http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/56fc405f79a01405f7a8dst01vuc>

