+++
title = "000 Dr. P. Ramanujan"

+++
[[Dr. P. Ramanujan	2015-05-19, 17:08:38 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/BhxmR-voEQ0)]]



Actually, since as per shastras, Vedic marriage is a samskara and is based on agni-sakshika homas, saptapadi etc., its annulment is not possible 'just like that' or by law.



There is a procedure called 'ghata-shraddha' as a formal shastraic equivalent of the recent concept of divorce, which some vaidikas have done, when things in marriage went irreconcilably beyond saving. This will then stall Asouca later for those related by that marriage.



Even for a householder (AhitAgni) to take sanyasa, many ishtis are to be performed, to give up samskrta-agni.

agni-udvasana is condemned as like vIra-hatyA (Taittiriya Samhita 1.5.9).



So, dharmic or shastraic way of life is for varna-ashrama dharama adherents, for whom law may not be of help.



Ramanujan

  
On May 19, 2015 at 4:35 PM "'Bharati Trust' via भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\> wrote:

>  style="color:#000;background-color:#fff;font-family:Helvetica Neue-Light,Helvetica Neue Light,Helvetica Neue,Helvetica,Arial,Lucida Grande,Sans-Serif;font-size:16px"> >
> 
> > It is not fully correct to say that Nehru made divorce legal. > Arthasastra of Koutilya allows divorce in certain types of marriages. > the term for Divorce is Moksha.Even i was under the impression that in > ancient India all marriages were inviolable. >
> 
> > 
> > I was pleasantly surprised to get this info. in Arthasastra.kautilya > was perhaps the most practical administrator and lawgiver. >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Dr. S.R. Leela ,prof. of Sanskrit  
> Ex.MLC, Govt Of karnataka,  
>   
> Managing Trustee, Abhinaya Bharati  
> Res: # 30, Dharini,1st Main,  
>  3rd cross, K.E.B.Lay-out,  
>  Bengaluru.560 085.  
> Ph.: 080-26692904, 9448092904 >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> >   
>   
> > 
> > 
> >  style="font-family:Helvetica Neue-Light,Helvetica Neue Light,Helvetica Neue,Helvetica,Arial,Lucida Grande,Sans-Serif;font-size:16px"> >
>  style="font-family:HelveticaNeue,Helvetica Neue,Helvetica,Arial,Lucida Grande,Sans-Serif;font-size:16px"> >
> 
> > On Wednesday, 13 May 2015 6:41 PM, Damodara Dasa > \<[damoda...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  
> > 
> >   
>   
> > 
> > Hare Krishna.  
>   
> Dear Vidvaj-janas,  
>   
> Divorce was nonexistent in Hindu culture until 1955 when Jawaharlal  
> Nehru, Prime Minister of India, legalized it, thus shaking countless  
> centuries of marital stability. Did he revoke the ancient statutes > of  
> Manu in doing so?  
>   
> Thankyou,  
> Damodara Das  
> 09737475085  
> --  
> [www.bvks.com](http://www.bvks.com)  
>   
> --  
> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
> ---  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to bvparishat+ [unsub...@googlegroups.com.]()  
> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com.]()  
> Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.  
>   
>   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

  




--  
निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
---  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
\[ C-DAC is on Social-Media too. Kindly follow us at:  
Facebook: <https://www.facebook.com/CDACINDIA> & Twitter: @cdacindia \]  
  
This e-mail is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may  
contain confidential and privileged information. If you are not the  
intended recipient, please contact the sender by reply e-mail and destroy  
all copies and the original message. Any unauthorized review, use,  
disclosure, dissemination, forwarding, printing or copying of this email  
is strictly prohibited and appropriate legal action will be taken.  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

