+++
title = "000 Dr.Vamshi Krishna Ghanapathi"

+++
[[Dr.Vamshi Krishna Ghanapathi	2011-07-19, 07:07:15 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/K00cLirlL4g)]]



  
  

With warm regards

Vamshi Krishna Ghanapathi

--------------------------------------

Sarvam Brahma

  
Begin forwarded message:  
  

> 
> > **From:** "Dr.Vamshi Krishna Ghanapathi" \<[vkghan...@gmail.com]()\>  
> **Date:** 19 July 2011 7:04:45 GMT+05:30  
> **To:** "[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()" > \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
> **Cc:** Digest Recipients \<[bvparish...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
> **Subject:** **Samskruta and Praakruta**  
>   
> > 

> 
> > 
> > Pranam >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > I am interested to know the origin and references of the term > Samskruta in any of the scriptures (Puraana, Saastra Prakarana > Granthas). >
> 
> > 
> > Possibly, the scenario or the set of people/regime which started using > this word to refer to the oldest language. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > As far as I know, Paanioneeya Siksha Cntained the first reference as > Praakruta and Samskruta Bhaasha. Here the commentators have deftly > interpreted Praakruta as something connected with Prakruti, without > any manual modifications; in essence the Veda. Thus Vaidika Bhaasha is > known as Praakruta Bhaasha. (This context is apt, for also the > expression; Pra, Akruta. Prakrushtah, Swaatassiddhah). Similarly > Samskruta is referred as a modern adaptation or modified or > standardized version. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > In Vyaakarana, BHAASHAA is the oft repeated word to denote the > language. Being oldest, it might not be plausible for our ancestors, > in thick of scriptural knowledge to fathom a different language. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Similarly, our religion is only denoted as Dharma and different > nomenclature is never mentioned in any of the scriptures. Further, > visitors or invaders have given the name Hindu, which I > personallydislike. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> Hence the naming/reference sequence of Samskruta is interesting. Any > thought about this issue is appreciated. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > With warm regards >
> 
> > 
> > Vamshi Krishna Ghanapathi >
> 
> > 
> > -------------------------------------- >
> 
> > 
> > Sarvam Brahma >
> 
> > 
> > 
> >   
> On 19-Jul-2011, at 4:50, []()[bvparisha...@googlegroups.com]() > wrote:  
>   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > > >  > style="background-color:#e8eef7;font-family:helvetica;font-size:140%;border-top:1px solid #7799dd;padding:2px"> > > > >  Today's Topic Summary > > > > 
> > > > Group: > > [](http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat/topics)[](http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat/topics)<http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat/topics> > > > > -   [SRMT 11th Anniversary > >     Invitation](#m_-7663232748093669805_group_thread_0) \[1 Update\] > > -   [Prof. Vacaspati Upadhyaya -A great scholar, good friend and > >     endearing person](#m_-7663232748093669805_group_thread_1) \[1 > >     Update\] > > -   [जिज्ञासा](#m_-7663232748093669805_group_thread_2) \[1 Update\] > > -   [Tibetan Monks Can Raise the Temperature of Their Skin Through > >     Meditation](#m_-7663232748093669805_group_thread_3) \[2 > >     Updates\] > > -   [Bharatkalyan97: Photos: 8000-year-old advanced civilisation in > >     Konkan Coast?](#m_-7663232748093669805_group_thread_4) \[1 > >     Update\] > > -   [Please forward this mail to your Sanskrit Scholars Group for > >     advising College Magazine > >     Name](#m_-7663232748093669805_group_thread_5) \[1 Update\] > > -   [Egypt\`s iconic antiquities chief > >     fired](#m_-7663232748093669805_group_thread_6) \[1 Update\] > > -   [A union of Indian Ocean Nations: B.S. > >     Raghavan](#m_-7663232748093669805_group_thread_7) \[1 Update\] > > > >  > style="background-color:#e8eef7;font-family:helvetica;font-size:140%;border-top:1px solid #7799dd;padding:2px"> > > > > Topic: [SRMT 11th Anniversary > > Invitation](http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat/t/3583d209092d56b8) > > > > 
> > > >  > style="background-color:#e8eef7;font-family:helvetica;font-size:140%;border-top:1px solid #7799dd;padding:2px"> > > > > Topic: [Prof. Vacaspati Upadhyaya -A great scholar, good friend and > > endearing > > person](http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat/t/abdb45d6ea009ba3) > > > > 
> > > >  > style="background-color:#e8eef7;font-family:helvetica;font-size:140%;border-top:1px solid #7799dd;padding:2px"> > > > > Topic: > > [जिज्ञासा](http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat/t/44bddbc788fc0173) > > > > 
> > > >  > style="background-color:#e8eef7;font-family:helvetica;font-size:140%;border-top:1px solid #7799dd;padding:2px"> > > > > Topic: [Tibetan Monks Can Raise the Temperature of Their Skin > > Through > > Meditation](http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat/t/38c72b34dd418431) > > > > 
> > > > &nbsp; > > > >  > style="background-color:#e8eef7;font-family:helvetica;font-size:140%;border-top:1px solid #7799dd;padding:2px"> > > > > Topic: [Bharatkalyan97: Photos: 8000-year-old advanced civilisation > > in Konkan > > Coast?](http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat/t/6a6a7b263c2af167) > > > > 
> > > >  > style="background-color:#e8eef7;font-family:helvetica;font-size:140%;border-top:1px solid #7799dd;padding:2px"> > > > > Topic: [Please forward this mail to your Sanskrit Scholars Group > > for advising College Magazine > > Name](http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat/t/4f71c76070a0e03b) > > > > 
> > > >  > style="background-color:#e8eef7;font-family:helvetica;font-size:140%;border-top:1px solid #7799dd;padding:2px"> > > > > Topic: [Egypt\`s iconic antiquities chief > > fired](http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat/t/84f6b3893f3fc620) > > > > 
> > > >  > style="background-color:#e8eef7;font-family:helvetica;font-size:140%;border-top:1px solid #7799dd;padding:2px"> > > > > Topic: [A union of Indian Ocean Nations: B.S. > > Raghavan](http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat/t/fb431e2100e1ebee) > > > > 
> > > > --  
> > अथ चेत्त्वमिमं धर्म्यं संग्रामं न करिष्यसि।  
> > ततः स्वधर्मं कीर्तिं च हित्वा पापमवाप्स्यसि।।  
> > तस्मादुत्तिष्ठ कौन्तेय युद्धाय कृतनिश्चयः।  
> > निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
> > > > 
> > 

