+++
title = "003 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2016-03-31, 02:16:02 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/4-Wu5K5tl8Q)]]



March 30, 2016



Dear Prof RNI, Thanks for your posting--Adhibautika-Soma herb Adhidaivic- Chandrama ------. I am reading the book by Brian K. Smith on Reflections on Resemblance and Religion. You may like it. If you have already read it, please share your impressions of the book for our benefits. Thanks. N.R.Joshi  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: rniyengar \<[narayana...@gmail.com]()\>  
To: भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत् \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
Subject: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Review of "Battle for Sanskrit"  
Date: Fri, 25 Mar 2016 09:12:20 -0700 (PDT)  
  

Dear Scholars,



I read a review of RM's book at



<http://www.sandeepweb.com/the-bhagavad-gita-before-the-battle/>



This is a good review of the book. Above and beyond being a mere review the article presents deep insights into our culture as by dispassionate insiders. My addition would be: "Scientific Naturalism of the Vedic Culture". Yaska mentions "Adhidaiva pakshe somo chandrama" Soma in the adhiyajna only was a herb to be crushed and taken in. In the adhidaiva Vedics observed the sky constantly and wondered about the relation between Dyaava-Prithivi to such an extent they came out with theories on the meaning of Life and place of Man in the visible Universe. The special numbers in the Rgveda and penchant for numbers in the other vedas, the analysis of "Time" in the MaitrayaNiya, discourse on Sun and Seasons in the Taittiriya Aranyaka are examples of a constant search for a tool for analyzing empirical knowledge and model building. Adhidaiva is usually translated as 'about gods' without answering who were these 'gods'. Many of these were associated with what we call today celestial objects: Stars, Comets, Meteors, eclipse-causers, Moon's phases and the like. While the internalization of the transcendent and a definitive world view going beyond the body-consciousness (Dehatma-buddhi) happens in the Upanishads, it is the adhidaiva which paved the way for later Mathematics (and classical music) which is the contribution of Hindus to world civilization. Not surprisingly, this is the only 'religion' which does not oppose modern science in any manner; as its axioms are based on what I call "scientific naturalism"  



RN Iyengar



--  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  

To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().

  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**Wall Street Daily**  
Peter Schiff: China Just Armed its Financial Missile  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/56fc3ae4d9fc63ae433bast03vuc)<http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/56fc3ae4d9fc63ae433bast03vuc>

