+++
title = "000 Dr ramanath"

+++
[[Dr ramanath	2010-10-04, 00:32:26 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/BTbdYMFp6ik)]]



व्यवहारे तु भाट्टाः - This is the quite interesting and important  
issue, so far I have seen in this forum, in the context of Indian  
philosophy. I have some ideas on the subject under discussion which I  
want to share with all.

Here, the actual problem is related to the nature of the objects of  
our empirical knowledge. Have they really exist in the present or  
external world, or have they only ideated character or merely images  
of our knowledge?

Vyayahara- We find several meanings of this term in Sanskrit but in  
the present context it implies mainly in following sense:  
१. यथा व्यवहरन्ति जना इत्यादॊ।  
२.बुबोधयिषापूर्वकवाक्यप्रयोगः। यथा सर्वव्यवहारहेतुर्ज्ञानं बुद्धिः  
इत्यादॊ व्यवहारः(वाक्यवृत्तिः१, तर्कप्रकाशः४, पृ०१३३)।  
३.तद्रूपावच्छिन्नबोधकशब्दः। यथा अयं गॊः इति शब्दः। अत्रायं  
कार्यकारणभावो बोध्यः व्यवहारे व्यवहर्तव्यज्ञानं हेतुः (नीलकण्ठी-१  
पृ०५, तर्कप्रकाशः शितिकण्ठी)।  
प्रभाकरा: तु व्यवहारे व्यवहर्तव्यतावच्छेदकासंसर्गाग्रह एव कारणम् न तु  
व्यवहर्तव्यतावच्छेदकप्रकारकं ज्ञानं कारणम् इत्याहुः(तर्कप्रकाशः४,  
पृ०१३३)। तेन शुक्तॊ इदं रजतम् इति व्यवहार उपपद्यते इति ज्ञेयम्  
(न्यायकोशः)।

Thus, In the present context the term Vyayahara indicates the worldly  
activities or practical experiences, dharma or karman (or Vedic  
Ritual) etc.. According to KumaArila the karman is the basic cause  
for the attainment of our main object. In the same way AdvaitavAdin  
aver that without being qualified ( an adhikAri- adhikAri tu vidhivat  
vedavdangatvena....etc VedAntasAra-SadAnanda), we cannot get our real  
object i.e. brahman (self). yuktAttmAnam - you should be qualified,  
then only the knowledge may be obtain. He is the one who is clear  
minded, and in possession of his faculties, yuktah AtmA antahkaraNam  
yasya, the one whose mind is pure and worthy. BGita 7 -18. This is why  
because without experiencing of the worldly affairs we cannot know the  
right or wrong. So the purification of mind (cittasuddhi) is necessary  
before further proceeding. The only differences between in these two  
school are that the main object according to BhATTas are Dharma(swarga  
through karman) on the other hand from the advaitavadin point of views  
are Brahman or Atman through jnyAna,.

In this regard भाट्टाः - MImAmsaka's (कुमारिलतुतातभट्ट: मीमांसकः तस्य  
अनुयायिनः भाट्टाः) theory is clear cut, they states that कर्मैव  
वेदमुख्यतात्पर्यम्, तेषां मते तु कर्मैवेश्वरः।स्वर्गादिकमेव पुरुषार्थः।  
अर्थवादो प्रमाणम् नास्ति। यथा सिद्धान्तचन्द्रोदये(१ पृ०११) यथा भूपालः  
परिचारकृतकर्मणः फलदाता तथा वेदोक्तकृत कर्मणः फलदातेश्वर एव इति  
समूचिरे। तदन्यश्चेतनरूपो ईश्वर: भगवान् वा नास्ति। In MimAMsakas,  
there are two main groups 1.PrabhAkara, and 2. BhATTaas.  
1. PrabhAkara's theory of knowledge is quite different than BATTas -  
प्रभाकरा: तु व्यवहारे व्यवहर्तव्यतावच्छेदकासंसर्गाग्रह एवकारणम् न तु  
व्यवहर्तव्यतावच्छेदकप्रकारकं ज्ञानं कारणम् इत्याहुः (तर्कप्रकाशः ४,  
पृ०१३३)। तेन शुक्तॊ इदं रजतम् इति व्यवहार उपपद्यते इति ज्ञेयम्  
(न्यायकोशः)।  
Prabhakaras theory is called as tripartite perception (tripuTI-  
pratyak). According to him there are three factors- i. that of the  
object, ii. that of knowledge itself which must be held to be self-  
luminous, and iii. that of the knower. He has been called by  
Stcherbatsky as a ' bastered son of Buddhism' ('The Philosophy of  
NyAya-VaseShika and its conflict with the Buddhist Dignaga School',  
D.N.Shastri, p.373),

On the other hand, KumArila hesitates even accepting two factors in a  
perception such as, i. perception of the object and that of its  
knowledge. NyAya system hesitates in accepting the simultaneous  
perception of the two i.e. the object and its knowledge by the same  
act of perception. Prabhakara strongly recommends that there are three  
factors in perception, which are revealed simultaneously by the same  
act of perception (for detail discussion please see D.N Shastri) .

Furthermore, according to Nyaiyayikas, the main object is ISvara, but  
they also think that the padArthAs or logical categories are real  
entities. Thus they think that pramAnas are absolutely valid and  
provide us real knowledge of the object regardless to VyAvahArika or  
PAramArhika truth. On the other hand AdvaitavAdin as well as  
MIMansakas(BhaTTas) think that padArthAs have only a relative  
existence vyAvahArika satya. For them we cannot know the absolute  
through means of valid knowledge "naiva vAcA naiva ManasA JnyAtum  
Sakyo na cakShuShA". वाचस्पत्यम्- कर्मकाण्डोपयोगस्तु ज्ञानयोगेन  
संख्यानां कर्मयोगेण योगिनाम् इति भगवद्गीतया तमेतं वेदानुवचनेन ब्रह्मणा  
विविदिषन्ति यज्ञेन तपसा अनाशकेन इति श्रुत्या च कर्मणां  
विविदिषाहेतुत्वोक्तेः विविदिषायामेव कर्मकाण्डप्रतिपाद्यकर्मण उपयोगः  
इति केचिद्वदन्ति।  
In this regard VijnyanavAdin Buddhist, SAmkhya and even advaitavAdin  
have similar concept about the absolute -गुणानां परमं रूपं न  
दृष्टिपथम् ऋच्छति, यत् तु दृष्टिपथं प्राप्तं तन्मायेव सुतुच्छकम्॥  
सांख्यप्रवचनसार, this verse has quoted by Dingnaga in his  
Pramanasamuccaya in fifth chapter - Apoha prakaraNa.

In the light of above contentions it is clear that why  
AdvaitavedAntin state that व्यवहारे तु भाट्टाः, na to vyavahAre  
PrabhAkaraH or NaiyAyikaH or MIMamsakAH etc.\|

