+++
title = "001 Dr ramanath"

+++
[[Dr ramanath	2010-01-01, 20:03:41 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/t2mKihwmv_Y)]]



  
Respected Scholars  
Namaskar  
First of all I would like to inform you that the correct spelling of  
my name is Ramanath, not Ramnath. Therefore I request scholars that  
whenever it requires please spell correct. Now, with due regard I  
respectfully submit as follow:

1\. The book, although entitled as DignAga’s interpretation -----, but  
deals with the DignAdA’s logical theory in the context of almost all  
major Indian philosophy. Therefore it is not only good to understand  
ideas of only Buddhist Philosophers but it is equally important for  
all, those who have interest in Indian philosophy as well as Sanskrit  
grammar and even literature, if they have philosophical thought  
especially in the context of word meaning. For in the history of  
Indian logic, DignAga seems to be the first philosopher who deals with  
the problem of means of valid knowledge (pramANa) exclusively. This  
being the case, the title conferred for DignAga as the father of  
medieval Indian logic, is well deserved. " ---DignAga is justly  
regarded as the Father of Mediaeval Logic. Both in matter and in  
manner his works marked a distinct departure from those of his  
predecessors. The keenness of his insight and the soundness of his  
critical acumen combined to stamp him with an individuality all his  
own. No praise seems too high for him. Indeed he may fittingly be  
styled as the first and last of Indian logicians. ---" History of  
Indian logic: Satis Chandra VidyAbhushana.(1920): page ³270-279.  
Therefore almost all scholars try to refute the DignAga in their  
treatises. Philosophy, language and literature all are co-related.  
2. The concept of Radhika Herzberger has been critically analyzed by  
DignAga itself. However, Radhika’s concept is outdated and mainly  
based upon Dharmakirti’s interpretation it is due to the state of  
knowledge of that time.  
3. The first literature, not only of India but also of the world, is  
Rigveda which is written in Vedik language. Whatever the thoughts are  
depicted in these we come to know about them through their Sabda (here  
the term Sabda covers it’s all aspects) - anuviddhmiva GyAnam Sarvam  
Sabdena bhAshAte. Thus the language is the source of all kinds of  
knowledge. However the Philosophy in its real sense begins from  
UpaniShadic periods, and it is the science of language which  
constrains us to think. Thus as I think that philosophical problems  
originates in our mind through the expression of the speech - vAk-  
vyakta or avyakta.  
4. Origin of Sanskrit words and their meanings: According to Indian  
tradition there are no difference between two questions, i. the origin  
of Universe or World, and, ii. the origin of words and their meanings.  
anAdinidhanam brahma Sabdatattvam ydaksharam, vivartate arthabhAvena  
prakriyA jagato yataH. VakpadIya1/1. And also see in the following  
words - devim vAcamajanayanta devanstA viSvarUpAH paSavo vadanti -  
Rgveda.-6,7,5,7. paSavo vadanti vyaktavacaSca avyaktavAcaSca-  
Nirukta-111-33-8 vyakta vAco manushyAdayo avyaktavAco gavAdayH-  
DurgacArya.  
The reason is clear according to our scriptures there are four  
classification of speech- catvAri vAk parimitA padAni. parA, paSyanti,  
madhyamA,and Vaikhari. There is no need in going details as you  
already discussed about these. Here is only important to note that we  
cannot acquire the particular meaning from word without a complete  
sentence which depends on gesture or context. Sentence is the primary  
unit of speech or language. We cannot express our complete thoughts  
even through a single sentence. The complete expressions depends only  
upon our i. AcAra, behavior or conduct i.e. way of life, ii. vicAra,  
thoughts, and iii. uccAra, pronunciations, expressions. Therefore  
Kalidasa asserts that  
VagarthAviva samprktau Vagartha pratipattaye, JagataH pitarou vande  
parvati parmeSvarau. (for detail please see my and Prof H.N.Bhatta  
postings on Sanskrit Samiti in Sanskrit). It means speech (vAk) (not  
the word or sentence) and meaning is combined; these cannot be  
differentiated from each other, so I pray to .......PArvati-  
prameSvara.  
My submission is this that, to know the origin of Sanskrit words and  
their meanings, you have to go through all SAstras, for these are only  
the sources of knowing our culture i.e. AcAra, vIcAra and uccAra. It  
means as Prof. Satpal Narang opined that there is need of re-editing  
of the text, it means original manuscripts. The etymological analysis  
is, as Yaska has done, one method to know the origin of these two  
( word-meaning although combined) on the basis of ancient grammarians.  
(This is the reason that in Indian tradition we do not find Semantic  
study in context of Sanskrit grammar as in western linguistic- see  
earlier posting of Prof. Ramanath Sharma) The second but most  
important method is based upon historical analysis of the particular  
word in the light of its application in creative sources. The  
meanings of words changes according to the culture of a society, time  
and place. I give one example the word IDa or iLa, (Agnim iDe  
purohitam, Rigveda,first sukta) has used simply in the sense of praise  
for agni, in ISopanisad, IsAvAsyamidam sarvam, In ISopaniShad, the  
term-IsSa has used in the sense of, to rule the world. In  
SvetASvetaropaniShad, it became ISvara, even here it is not used in  
the sense of supreme or cause of universe but it is question mark. It  
is pertinent to note here that the period of this UpanishAda is  
doubtful. After this the term has used in the context of supreme  
authority, creator of the universe -ekapurusha, as KalidAsa does-  
VedAnteshu yamAhureka.. It is also important to note that in the  
Indian philosophy, among six systems (ShaddarSana), only the NyAya and  
Yoga have considered ISvara as a creator God, supreme authority. And  
in epics- RamAyaNa and MahAbhArata, PuraNas and in other literature we  
find it’s use in various forms or for various gods. Just see that in  
the KAlidAsa’s literature we do not find even the slightest trace of  
bigotry or narrowness or obscurantism in his spiritual vision. In this  
regard I will not go in more detail but only I have some doubts about  
the period of MahAbhArata on the basis of its subject matter. It seems  
that GitA is interpolation. The period of GitA may be earlier than  
MahAbhArata. However, there is need for further investigation. Here  
one more important point to note that In SAkuntalam, Bharata appears  
as child. This Bharata might be has become BhArata in latter period  
and further became MahAbhArata. Although most scholars believe that  
the story of the SAkuntala play is based on MahAbhArata. But it seems  
that story of Mahabharata is originated from Sakuntala. Therefore  
there is a need of a comparative historical analysis on the ground of  
the subject matter between these two on the basis of original and  
secondary sources both. Here you just see that how the term svara  
(sound), in the sense of cries of sentient beings, means sound  
perceiver, literally - he who has perceived sound (the cries of  
sentient beings who needs their help), in MahAyAna Buddhism, changed  
in the form of I-Svara(god). Avalokitesvara became Avalokite+Svara. I  
have discussed this in detail in my one of research paper entitled ‘A  
study of VasudhAra-nAma-dhArani on the basis of a Manuscript and  
secondary sources.  
Therefore there is a need for a etymological study of the history of  
words and their meaning from its earliest application. Then only we  
can draw any conclusion about the origin of a particular word and  
their meanings.  
And about the Vyaasa was contemporary of Mahabharata personalities or  
not, it is better to go through the references occurred in ancient  
Sastras such as Vedas and Vedika Sahitya, MahAbhArata, PurAnAs ect.  
For all these knowledge of the ancient Indian culture is necessary  
which can be acquired through the historical analysis of the  
particular word and its meaning not on the basis of only Sanskrit  
grammar but in its totality. About the date of KAlidasa, DignAga and  
Bhartrhari, my opinion is that all these are contemporary. I will  
appreciate the suggestion or comments on these points from scholars.  
Thanks



\> Cheap Diet Help Tips. Click here.<http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL2141/c?cp=IoIKnYBkXX9THV7mKweUegA.>..  

