+++
title = "010 Dr. Debabrata Chakrabarti"

+++
[[Dr. Debabrata Chakrabarti	2018-08-27, 14:22:05 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/9dg9DHHzeAU)]]



Dear List Members,

Kant was greatlyimpressed by Indian thoughts. Though some of his views on India were not clear, but he had certainly some ideas which were in common with Indian thought. Helmuth von Glassenapp’s book, Kant und die Religionen des Ostens (Kant and the Religions of the East), Würzburg, second ed. 1954 which is more or less our only source of knowing about his thoughts about India, shows Kant to have been greatly impressed by Indian thoughts. He saw in India ample evidence of ethical standard in the society that could be substantiated as a very important factor in the evaluation of Indian religion and culture.

There are many interesting points on which Kant expressed his opinion. Reward in heaven for good deeds, transmigration of soul, tolerance in religious beliefand the like.

Regards

Debabrata Chakrabarti

  

## 

  

  

  

  

  

???This body is like a musical instrument; what you hear depends upon how you play it.??? ??? Anandamayi Ma

???Inside every human being there exists a special heaven, whole and unbroken.??? - Paracelsus

  

  

  

  

##  

##  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Von:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\> im Auftrag von Sivakumar,Kollam \<[sivan...@gmail.com]()\>  
**Gesendet:** Montag, 27. August 2018 07:52:19  
**An:** Bharateeya Vidwat Parisht  
**Betreff:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Immanuel Kant





