+++
title = "000 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2016-04-19, 02:11:57 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/BVVb-lbKH_Y)]]



April 18, 2016

Dear Arobind, I agree with you.

Prophet Mohammad and His son-in law Ali praised Hindustan (Article of Dr. Tahir Mohammad from Delhi in Times of India long ago). There are Husseni Brahmins in the north India who went to Irak to fight for Hussen's (grandson of the prophet) life. Now they participate in Moharam (Shia mourning ) each year. History is continuously distorted by priesthood of the foreign religious priest to gain power. Thanks . N.R.Joshi  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: Aurobind Padiyath \<[aurobind...@gmail.com]()\>  
To: [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Idea of devataavaividhya harmonious with ekatva of brahman, an imitation of monotheism ?  
Date: Sun, 17 Apr 2016 03:01:51 +0000  
  
Hypothetically if Christ and Mohamed were to be born in India or were allowed to be included in the "Vasudaiva kudumbhakam" , won't they also be like Karthikeya and Buddha? Just that they were in other countries we have problem in including them. Are we not allowing Sai followers and others to function? Only when these followers try to impose and tramp on the existing systems and undertake forceful conversations, people react.

Are we not taught to accept noble thoughts from all over the world to be accepted? If not can we ever would have seen any footprints of Zorashtrians etc in this country?

While we accept noble thoughts It's our right to protect what's rightfully our's.

  
Aurobind  

On Sun, 17 Apr 2016 08:19 Nagaraj Paturi, \<[nagara...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:

> 
> > 
> > Is notthe thread getting digressed from the original theme ? >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Young children are being told that 'Hinduism', before the British had > polytheism. It is when the Christian missionaries told them that you > are polytheistic, but see we are monotheistic, they started claiming > that 'ours is also a monotheistic religion'. This, when told to a > young audience knows the ancientGreek Polytheism which is a > polytheism that excludes monotheism and Christianity which is a > monotheism that excludes polytheism, there is a scope for > misunderstanding. That what is being called as 'Hinduism' has a > different situation is to be communicated to such audience. 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > On Sun, Apr 17, 2016 at 1:12 AM, Ajit Gargeshwari > \<[ajit.gar...@gmail.com]()\> wrote: >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > >   
> > > > 
> > > > On Sat, Apr 16, 2016 at 11:41 PM, Satish Kumar Dogra > > \<[dogra...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  
> > > > > . We should build up a tradition of discussing our scriptures in > > > Sanskrit and bring the standards of discussion to a level where > > > the Westerners feel compelled to learn our language to get wisdom > > > > 
> > > >   
> > > > 
> > > > Historically Sanskrit was not the only language in which > > spirituality was discussed for popular reading and understanding of > > philosophy. Philosophy was extensively discussed in regional > > languages. When philosophy can be discussed in regional languages > > why not English. The problem is we loosely use western Philosophical > > terms whose usage for Indian systems of philosophy, many concepts > > are similar but not identical. Why do we need to compel any one? > > Westerner easterner or even an Indian. If you say I am wise listen > > to me forget westerners even Indian wont listen. Don't we many sub > > schools in Indian philosophy?  
> > > > 
> > > >   
> > > >  > style="color:#330033;font-family:georgia,serif"> > > > > 1) Does the concept of religion apply in the Indian context where > > ancient Indians believed more in 'mata' or opinion and 'path' or > > different approaches to God. 2) Should Hinduism not be equated with > > Sanatana Dharma.   
> >   
> > > > 
> > > >  > style="color:#330033;font-family:georgia,serif"> > > > > I don't know mata but each school of philosophy was and is called a > > darshana. The word Sanatana Dharma is not found in Vedas or any old > > philosophical texts. Its a recent word and should be ignored. The > > problem starts if we start writing like chauvinists.   
> >   
> > > > 
> > > >  > style="color:#330033;font-family:georgia,serif"> > > > > In my opinion both द्वैत and अद्वैत are the गुणाः of ईश्वरः Like > > so much else seems contradictory when we try to understand it > > through human logic, the simultaneous existence of द्वैत and अद्वैत > > seems contradictory when we try to understand it logically.  > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > >   
> > I don't understand the above sentence. > > > > 
> > > >   
> > > >  > style="color:#330033;font-family:georgia,serif"> > > > > The problem arises when Zakir Naik quotes from Hindi scriptures to > > prove that some of the attributes of God in Hindu scriptures are > > those of Allah, and, therefore, Allah is there in Hindu scriptures. > > As a Hindu I am ready to accept this. But would Zakir Naik accept if > > I sit in a mosque and worship a Hindu God because that is afterall a > > representation of Allah? > > > > 
> > > >   
> > > >  > style="color:#330033;font-family:georgia,serif"> > > > > Let me ask the same question if some one sits in temple and loudly > > read Koran will it be fine. (Personally for me it does not matter). > > If one says there is God and theology in Hindu texts whats wrong one > > may call God allah or Ram. > > > > 
> > > >   
> > > >  > style="color:#330033;font-family:georgia,serif"> > > > > श्रोत्रादीनीन्द्रियाण्यन्ये संयमाग्निषु जुह्वति  
> > शब्दादीन्विषयानन्य इन्द्रियाग्निषु जुह्वति  
> >   
> > I take the second line to mean that even deep indulgence of the > > senses is a kind of yajna. Interpreters of the shlokah with a rigid > > 'Hindu' mind try to fit this into 'family dharma' and all that. But > > where is the need for such forced fitting? Why can't we simply > > accept and say, "Yes, complete application of the senses, when for > > instance listening to a raga or watching a dance, is also a kind > > yajna"? > > > > 
> > > >   
> > > >  > style="color:#330033;font-family:georgia,serif"> > > > > This might be popular interpretation or your own interpretation of > > the sholka. This interpretation is neither shastric or traditional > > or has logical backing.  
> >   
> > There is no doubt that we have moved into an age where different > > religions are not only in competition with one another, but also > > tend to take a rigid and exclusive position.  
> >   
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > This is because many Indian saints saints and good meaning God men > > and women have made yoga and other Indian concepts a commodity and > > are earning millions of dollars which is against our Dharma Shastras > > for Dharma is never for sale. If my followers are making more money > > than your followers then the problem starts.  
> > > > 
> > > >   
> > > >  > style="color:#330033;font-family:georgia,serif"> > > > > We need to focus on new interpretive tools rather than rigidify our > > views about the scriptures. For, if we try to look at the scriptures > > every time with a new perspective we might find meanings that we had > > never thought of.   
> >   
> > > > 
> > > >  > style="color:#330033;font-family:georgia,serif"> > > > > There are enough tools and there always scope for more I agree > > > > 
> > > >   
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Regards  
> > Ajit Gargeshwari  
> > न जायते म्रियते वा कदाचिन्नायं भूत्वा भविता वा न भूयः।  
> > अजो नित्यः शाश्वतोऽयं पुराणो न हन्यते हन्यमाने शरीरे।।2.20।। > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > -- > > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > > You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > > To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, > > send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com](). > > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > >   
> > To post to this group, send email to > > [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> > For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >   
> --  
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Nagaraj Paturi >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA. >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Former Senior Professor of Cultural Studies >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > FLAME School of Communication and FLAME School ofLiberal Education, >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > (Pune, Maharashtra,INDIA) >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > --  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to a topic in the > Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this topic, visit > <https://groups.google.com/d/topic/bvparishat/2RnuVTQaaBQ/unsubscribe>.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and all its topics, send an email to > [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

--

Aurobind Padiyath  
[+91-9689755499](tel:+91%2096897%2055499)



--  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**Wall Street Daily**  
Peter Schiff: China Just Armed its Financial Missile  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/571546766d9b7467642a8st04vuc)<http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/571546766d9b7467642a8st04vuc>

