+++
title = "000 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2012-03-03, 10:42:40 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/EmjUV0ILb6Q)]]



My dear Hemant Kumar,



It will be derogation to say that our Vedic Rishis used Computers. They themselves were more than computers. What are computers but only tools that do what its creater asks it to do. As a programmer, let me tell you that a computer cannot do anything beyond it has been programmed to do. But the programmer has infinite abililities.



Great fanfare was created by the media that in USA, one fellow calculated the value of Pai, Π; upto 300 decimal places; as if that was a great thing. **I can give you the value of Π to any precision - 30 lakh places or to infinity. In 1981, I contacted ****Sri D****astidar, Chairman of ECIL, to build a computer with a Sanskrit base; that is with values assigned to Sanskrit fonts, so that we could run computers on Sanskrit programs. But the engineers laughed at me saying that what difference does that make? To my suggestion to make the numerical field larger to hold 18 digits, - 15 was the them limit - it was laughed at as a waste of space. I spoke about that later to Dr. N. Sheshagiri, Secretary, DOE, GOI, he did appreciate my initiative, but he was very busy trying to get the microfilm copies of all Indian MSS abroad, and would take up my ideas thro' C-dac that was being set up for the purpose.**

**For your info, I may add that I had developed programs that could handle any large numbers in all arithmetic operations. I had a demo version in which any visitor could feed 80-digit numbers \[that was the least of the input devices\] and the result would be available in a fraction of a second for any number of operations. I threw away my work in 1998, because they were stored in 8-inch diskettes, which had become obsolete.**



**Why I am mentioning this after 30 years of my efforts, which my then colleagues are quite aware of, is to bring to your focus that a man's creativity is not in the tools but in his mind. If the country needs it, even today I can rebuild the programs in no time. This is what our Vedic Rishis declared in Mano Brahma - that MIND is the Brahman. So do not insult them by saying that they used computers.**



**I agree that what is being done in the present seminars is always not effective; or as fruitful as we expect. Still it cannot be denied that such seminars do attract the public attention to a subject that is almost lost sight of. That is not a small fact.**



**So there is no purushaartha achieved by crying hoarse about what others do. Do what you can. If you have the stuff, people will recognise albeit very slowly. So start doing your might; than objecting to what others try to do; which is a waste of effort.**



**Dr. B.V.K. Shastry is trying to do something in Florida. Please tell us what you have done and are willing to do. There will be people who will be willing to follow you. That is what I expect from you and persons like my friend Sri Krishnakumar.**



**Yours fraternally,**

**s.r.krishna murthy.**



On Sat, Mar 3, 2012 at 4:05 AM, Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma \<[d.ramak...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> **Namaste.  
>   
> Please find the PDF file attached herewith titled A Manual for > Research.  
>   
> Dhanyosmi.  
> ** >
>   
> --  
> [Puthige Document > 2011](http://www.scribd.com/doc/47565765/Puthige-Document-2011)  
>   
> [.](http://www.scribd.com/doc/47565765/Puthige-Document-2011) >
> **  
>   
> [Bharatiya > Heritage](https://sites.google.com/site/bharatiyaheritage/home/awake-oh-bharatiya)Aangirasa/Dr.S.Ramakrishna > Sharma. M.A.,Ph.D.(Eng.Lit.),Ph.D.(Sanskrit.).**  
> > --  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google  
> Groups "Foundation for Indian Scientific Heritage" group.  
> To post to this group, send email to  
> [foundation-for-india...@googlegroups.com]()  
> To unsubscribe from this group, send email to  
> [foundation-for-indian-scie...@googlegroups.com]()  
> For more options, visit this group at  
> <http://groups.google.co.in/group/foundation-for-indian-scientific-heritage?hl=en?hl=en-GB>  
> HERITAGE AWARENESS MAKES AN ENLIGHTENED CITIZEN.

  

