+++
title = "003 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2012-03-05, 09:24:44 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/EmjUV0ILb6Q)]]



My dear Prasad,

I wonder how the thread is missing. However, here is what Dr. Hemanth Kumar posted in reply to mine.



"Accept that you dont know that they used Computers. Of course not of the form we see it now. Mind has its own limits. So it requires "Parikara" to do some jobs, which will ease the process. One accepts Nostradomas used a circular globe to see the future, but not our Rushis. They do had lot of equipments and done enormous experimentation by using lot of materials. You are only seeing in terms of Vedanta or Uttara Paksha. There are in depth experiments in Purva Paksha of Karma Kaanda, which is not at all explored. Everything cannot be explained in groups. Lots of Paatraapaatra Nirnaya is required before an hidden Vidhya has to be explained.

Rushis themselves have hidden some of the Ruks of Veda such that it shouldn't be misused. So nearly ten thousand Rigveda Ruk's are available out of 24 thousand! These aren't toys just to see or to play. Even after being in Gurukal, continuous Vedic practice, Yoga, Siddhi, Sadhana one can't assure that it will not be misused. It flows only in Guru-Shishya Parampara, not to the wrong hands.

I don't have pride. If you want to know our work, we are pleased to welcome you to our place.

What I wrote is there in Vedas and Samshodhana Prabhandas of so many Rushis written in Vedic Language in Palm leaves and copper plates from our collection. We don't believe in any publications done after the foreign invaders like Biritish or Moghul attacked Bharat.

I have seen high school students talking & programming for high precisions. So its a old story. Now we have super computers in hand. Multicores, GPU's, APU's for higher precisions in less time. But not equivalent to Vedic Computers.

  
2012/3/3 S.R.Krishnamurthy \<[srkmu...@gmail.com]()\>"



And you have seen my reply to him. It is true that none of us can lay claim that we know everything on every subject that is on this earth. Mister Hemanth claims to have special knowledge and materials. So it is for him to demonstrate his wares; for the world to see and appreciate. That is all.



By the by, none of our Rishis in Vedas have imposed any conditions as to who should study them and who should not study them. But by the standards of Mr. Hemanth Kumar, from what he has posted, he considers that none of the members of this BV parishat is fit enough to know what he has in store with him. If that is his stand, then why is it that he is making noises here? Else, he would have placed his knowledge such that other members may see and judge him and his work.



Had our Vedic Rishis depended on Computers - Super or Supra - they would have mentioned it. So far, none of the scholars have made even a passing reference to that. So Hemanth's claims are interesting indeed. But he refuses to reveal what he has. Then, as Dr.Korada Subramanyam put it, How to believe him? That if for Hemanth to answer.



Yours fraternally, in anticipation of a Demo of a Vedic Supercomputer,

s.r.krishna murthy.









On Sun, Mar 4, 2012 at 11:14 PM, Jsra Prasad \<[jsrap...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> Respected Sir,  
>   
> The conversation is interesting but a bit confusing as your > addressee's reply  
> to your comment is not included in your cc to BVP.  
>   
> Kindly provide the thread.  
>   
> With regards,  
> Prasad  
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 





> 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > > --  
> > निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
> > to subscribe go to the link below and put a request  
> > <https://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat/subscribe>  
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > > To unsubscribe from this group, send email to  
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > > [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]()  
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> >   
>   
>   
> > 
> > 
> > --  
> Dr. Jsra Prasad,  
> Asst. Professor, Dept. of Sanskrit Studies  
> University of Hyderabad, Prof. C.R. Rao Road,  
> Hyderabad - 500 046 Tel: 040-2313 3803  
>   

  

