+++
title = "000 rniyengar"

+++
[[rniyengar	2011-06-27, 15:17:37 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/wifOyIa5dbg)]]



Dear Scholars, Namaste  
  
I like to inform the members of BVP that at the Jain University,  
(<http://www.jainuniversity.ac.in/>) a new initiative has been taken to  
form a “Centre for Ancient History & Culture”. This has started  
working at the Jain University Campus off J.C. Road, Bangalore. We had  
a brain storming session on the concept of the Centre a few months  
back. Some 20-25 persons with varied backgrounds, but all interested  
in and contributing to “Culture” with love for Sanskrit participated  
in the discussions. Based on this and also taking into consideration  
the vision and ideals of the Founder of the University, Sri R.Chenraj  
Jain (Chairman of JGI, Bangalore) the activities in the Centre are  
being developed. At present I am the Coordinator of the Centre. Dr.  
S.Y. Wakankar (Ex-Dy.Director; ORI, Baroda), whom many of you may  
personally know, has joined as full time Professor at the Centre.  
  
Broadly the Centre aims at carrying out research studies covering  
almost all aspects of ancient Indian history and culture. In this  
regard history may be ancient but culture is continuous and hence of  
contemporary relevance. The Centre recognizes that Sanskrit and the  
concepts represented through this language forms the core of Indic  
culture, which is all pervasive and has diffused into neighbouring  
regions also. While Sanskrit as a language may be studied for its own  
sake, the Centre would not like to be another routine department in  
the university system. The Centre to the best of its abilities would  
strive hard to be a link between traditional methods and the modern  
intellectual approach. Collection, preservation and editing of  
manuscripts would be one of the activities. The approach of the  
Centre would be elitist, the outcome measured in terms of research  
publications, Ph.D etc. It is recognized that culture and history are  
intertwined. The Centre aims at studying this aspect including the  
Vedas, Epics, Purana, Jaina and Buddhist texts. In this effort  
interaction among the Jain, Buddhist and Hindu traditions remains to  
be systematically researched and documented.  
  
In recent years several new aspects of transmission of scientific and  
technological knowledge from India to the west have come to light. The  
Centre would like to study unpublished Sanskrit/Prakrit manuscripts on  
exact sciences with a view towards highlighting the relevance of such  
studies in the modern context. Similarly the Centre would like to  
interact with historians, epigraphists, archaeologists, mathematicians  
and scientists in such a way that “Sanskrit study” does not get  
isolated from related disciplines.  
  
Opportunities are available at the Centre for pursuing doctoral  
studies on ancient Indian history and culture.  
  
This is just a short announcement. Suggestions and ideas for further  
development of the Centre are welcome.  
  
best regards  
  
RN Iyengar

