+++
title = "059 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-05-20, 00:36:05 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/6atRTQx_oGo)]]



Namaste



Should we understand the statement - ‘In my understanding f sound is not correct chanting in Krishna Yajurvedia tradition’ in the same tenor as ‘ As my teacher taught it, As I have seen it in usage’ where the audit standard becomes individual; or should we be looking for a authentication by text and practice ?



In this case , the nah- prachodayaat’ discussion seems to be overlooking the ‘ issue of ‘ spacing ( kaala – viraama) – how so ever small between nah and pra . The full visarga of ‘nah’ becomes
‘ardha- visarga sadrusha’ in uccharana.



In japa, there is NO movement of air or vocalorgans. So pronunciation is not articulate to say there is ‘ Pha’. In Articulate voiced recording, look for ardha visarga and there is no need to hypothesize the ‘ pha’ sound’.



The sandhi and visarga transformations mentioned for ‘ full visarga’
do not seem to apply in toto to the ‘ ardha- visarga-sadrushau’.
What Bhattoji/ commentary seems to indicate is two specific things.



In terms of Voice : it is ‘ ardha visarga, leaving a ‘ white space/ silence zone of time –length –ardha visarga’ between na and pra. Thus, the sandhi rule does not operate. What operates is ‘ rakruti bhaava’ where after ‘na’ there is half visarga’ joined to na and then ‘ half- visarga’ as silence and then full ‘pra’.



When there is no scope for Sandhi, the entire issue of ‘ pha’ is a clear ‘ apa-shabdita’. Try pronouncing na, followed with half-visarga and then half visarga and then pra. Listen to what comes out. There will be no ‘ pha’ sound !





I am not extending this deliberation on ‘ Whether original Gayatri mantra’ was with pha’ sound or half- visarga’.



Regards

BVK Sastry 



**From:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() \[mailto:[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\] **On Behalf Of** Dr.C.S.R. Prabhu  
**Sent:** Thursday, 17 May, 2018 2:19 AM  
**To:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Pronunciation of astra bija



In my understanding f sound is not correct chanting in Krishna Yajurvedia tradition.



On Thu 17 May, 2018, 11:39 AM venkat veeraraghavan, \<[vvenk...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:

> When the Savitri is chanted f sound comes at the sandhi of nah and > prachodayat so that it is chanted as nafprachodayat.  
>   
> Can you kindly explain this? **Many like Challakere brothers use this > form while chanting or doing japa.  
> **  
> Venkat  
>   
> --  
> 

