+++
title = "065 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-05-20, 06:00:51 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/6atRTQx_oGo)]]



Namaste



Additional information for contemplation.



The context of discussion here is Gayatri Mantra , a veda-mantra and \<nah-pra \> combination or paada vibhaaga or pada vibhaaga . The uccharana is doubted. The fear on the fficacy of mantra –japa. 

The issue raised is pronunciation of visarga after which ka- pa follows.



See the rule \<8-3-50> ( Siddhatna Kaumudi 3635).

Here we have the Sutra with specific instance of ka with visarga following another ka. The change in the context of veda is different and specific rule is provided. The rule 8-3-37 does not seem to apply !



It is very easy to say ‘ Panini’ has oversights; he does not understand Veda separated from his time- context ; Vedic language is socio-linguistics and amenable to Grimms law model analysis et al. But there are also specific instances as pointed here where Paninian insight becomes clear and tradition of muni-traya sampradaya needs to be carefully and respectfully studied. Indeed Samskrutham is a tricky and tough language !



This is only a pointer to say, how extending rules of one domain , unwarranted to another domain may harm the true intention of Sutrakaara and Vyakarana Sampradaya. This caution may not be needed for those who work with roman script symbols and negation of Shikshaa – veda shaakhaa based voicing of the mantra.



Regards

BVK Sastry



**From:** Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL) \[mailto:[sastr...@gmail.com]()\]  
**Sent:** Saturday, 19 May, 2018 3:35 PM  
**To:** '[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()'  
**Subject:** RE: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Pronunciation of astra bija



Namaste



On \< **कुप्वोः** **ख़फ़ौ** **च** **८.३.३७** > -



Can you please re-check on the original reading and voicing of
Paniniya Sutra (8-3-37) : Is the rule yielding alpa-prana or mahaaprana OR the nukta marked Maha-prana ?



What is the force of ‘cha’ ?



What is the tradition ? ( Not the DIGITIZED ISCII/ UNICODE SYMBOL ?)



How would one pronounce - **।** **बालख़्करोति। - वृक्षफ़्फलति। with Nukta ? **





Please see the reference text
[https://archive.org/stream/ashtadhyayitrans06paniuoft#page/1612/mode/2up - PAge 1613](https://archive.org/stream/ashtadhyayitrans06paniuoft#page/1612/mode/2up%20-%20PAge%201613). - Srisa Chandra Vasu - Published by Sidnhu Charan Bose at the Panini Office (1897)



Incorrect Scripted Text ( in Digital domain, pushed for group circulation causes greater harm than inaccurate pronunciation).



Regards

BVK Sastry















**From:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() \[mailto:[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\] **On Behalf Of** Nagaraj Paturi

  
**Sent:** Thursday, 17 May, 2018 8:07 AM  
**To:** Bharatiya Vidvat parishad  

**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Pronunciation of astra bija



· Vedic had a[voiceless ](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voiceless_bilabial_fricative "Voiceless bilabial fricative")[bilabial](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voiceless_bilabial_fricative "Voiceless bilabial fricative")[ fricative](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voiceless_bilabial_fricative "Voiceless bilabial fricative")(ᳶ\[ɸ\], called*upadhmānīya*) and a[voiceless velar fricative](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voiceless_velar_fricative "Voiceless velar fricative")(ᳵ\[x\], called*jihvāmūlīya*)—which used to occur when the breath*visarga*(अः) appeared before voiceless labial and velar consonants respectively. Both of them were lost in Classical Sanskrit to give way to the simple*visarga*- upadhmaniya occurs before*p*and*ph*, jihvamuliya before*k*and*kh*.



<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grammar_of_the_Vedic_language>



