+++
title = "011 VKG"

+++
[[VKG	2010-08-07, 05:35:42 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/YKjMuwBxhXQ)]]



Pranaam!

The lucid interpretation by Sri Hari Narayana Bhat and SM Mishra have  
put the words of the Sutra in right perspective.

One simple Yad, Tad Sabda Prayoga has done the trick.

विषयेषु वितृष्णस्य (या) वशीकारसंज्ञा (नम्), (तद्) वैराग्यम्।

When, Patanjali Maharshi mentions, Abhyaasa and Vairagya are the means  
to achieve the end of Samaadhi. (Yuga - Samaadhou, is the Dhaatu  
accepted by Vyaasa Bhaashya Kaara, rather than Yujir - Yoge).

In this sense, Highest State of Vairagya required to achieve, Highest  
State of Asamprajnaata Samaadhi.

In this context, I further deem that, such Anvaya Krama for various  
Sutras from different Sastras would be quite helpful for a normal  
reader, who is well- versed Samskruta.

(As HMB has rightly pointed out, I feel that, a normal Sanskrit  
Scholar will not get clarity at some points, even after going thru  
many commentaries of Yoga Sutra. Due to conflicts of terminology/  
Pratyayas).

An effort to add punctuation (in modern parlance) and supplementary  
words would be of great service to the student scholars.

Regards  
Vamshi Krishna Ghanapaathi (VKG)

On Aug 6, 7:25pm, Surendra Mohan Mishra

  
\<[dr.surendramohanmishra....@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  
\> Yes,to my best understanding the Gita passage quoted corresponds to the  
\> state of para-vairaagya as said in the Yogasuutras : tat param  
\> purushakhyaater guNavaitrishNyam ."Vishyaa vinivartante niraahaarasya  
\> dehinah' refers to yatamaanasamjnaa and vyatirekasamjnaa types of vairaagya  
\> and 'rasavarjam' implies ekendriyasamjnaa where the longing still remains in  
\> subtle form in the mind alone.But 'raso'pyasya param drishTvaa nivartate'  
\> speaks of the highest state where one has had the vision of  
\> sattva-purushaanyataakhyaati already achieved.Regards,SMMishra  
\>  

\> 2010/8/6 Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma \<[d.ramakrishn...@gmail.com]()\>

  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\> \> प्रणम्य  
\> \> Thanks a million for leading/directing the efforts from  
\> \> anvayaklesha to arthaanusandhaanam.  
\> \> This analysis also throws light on the need of VyAkaraNam as an essential  
\> \> tool  
\> \> for arriving at the meanings of any sUtra Text. An English/Sanskrit  
\> \> Dictionary would  
\> \> prove a very poor tool to substitute the internalized VyAkaraNam as a ready  
\> \> reckoner.  

\> \> \*\>VairAgya\* is of two types -\* AparavairAgya\* and  
\> \> \*ParavairAgya .

  
\> \> Is the ParavairAgya the same ensuing state of buddhi  
\> \> when रसोप्यस्य परम् दृष्ट्वा निवर्तते ?  
\> \> A request:  
\> \> A Paper on Yogic Psychology by you during the forthcoming Conference  
\> \> On Veda Vidya(21-23 Jan.2011) would be of immense value.  
\> \><http://wikieducator.org/File:Int.Conf.Brochure.pdf>  
\>  

\> \> \*  
\>  
\> \> 2010/8/6 subrahmanyam korada \<[korad...@gmail.com]()\>

  
\>  
\> \> namo vidvadbhyah  
\>  
\> \>\> The term 'samjnA' is produced by applying ' an'(kavarga) - pratyaya by '  
\> \>\> Atascopasarge'(Panini  
\> \>\> 3-3-106 , replacing ktin) in BhAva (bhAva eva hi dhAtvarthah ityavicchinna  

\> \>\> Agamah - \*Vakyapad-Pada- Kriyasamu)\*

  
\> \>\> There are several meanings of the term 'SamjnA' -  
\>  

\> \>\> 1.\* VyavahArah\* , i.e. usage ( \*tadasisyam samjnApramAnatvAt , Pani  
\> \>\> 1-2-53).\*  
\> \>\> \*\*  
\> \>\> 2. \*Bodhakah\* (na hi sakArAntA samjnA asti , \*Mahabhasyam\*, svam rUpam ,  
\> \>\> 1-1-67)  
\>  
\> \>\> 3. \*SamjnAnam\* = avagatih = jnAnam = buddhih (samjnAnam prajnAnam  
\> \>\> vijnAnam jAnadabhijAnat  
\> \>\> (\*TaittiriyakAthaka\*)  
\>  
\> \>\> 4. \*SamjnA\* (a name or disignation as in SamjnAprakaranam))

  
\>  
\> \>\> In the present context it is the third meaning .  
\>  

\> \>\> \*Vrttinirodha \*is the topic . There is a two-fold device - \*AbhyAsa\* and  
\> \>\> \*VairAgya\* .  
\>  
\> \>\> \*SamprajnAtasamAdhi\* or \*AsamprajnAtasamAdhi\* - is the result  
\>  
\> \>\> \*VairAgya\* is of two types -\* AparavairAgya\* and \*ParavairAgya .\*  
\>  
\> \>\> Among the four Samjnas of \*AparavairAgya\* , VasIkArasamjnA is the fourth

  
\> \>\> one .  
\>  
\> \>\> Why others are not touched ? - they cannot be the cause of ' nirodha',  
\> \>\> even after acheiving the three one may have ' cittaksobha ' due to the  
\> \>\> proximity of ' visaya ' .  
\>  

\> \>\> Food, wealth etc.are \*'drstAh' visayAh\* .  
\>  
\> \>\> AnusrUyate AcAryAt iti anusravah ( srUyate it srutih) = Vedah . \*TasmAdAgatah  
\> \>\> , tatra bhavo vA\*  
\> \>\> \*Anusravikah (thakpratyayah).\*  
\> \>\> Anusravika eva nau kasyapa iti I ubhau vedayate -\* TaittirIyAranyakam\* .

  
\> \>\> Therefore the things mentioned in Veda such as Svarga , Vaidehyam etc. are  

\> \>\> \*AnusravikavisayAh.\*  
\>  
\> \>\> Here is the gist - when there are all the \*three Samjnas\* and \*AbhyAsa,\*such a person's  
\> \>\> \*BuddhisUnyatvarUpA\*, in terms of '\*heya\*' and '\*upAdeya\*', pertaining to  
\> \>\> \*'Drsta\*' and '\*Anusravika\*' , is \*VasIkArasamjnA\* , the same is \*  
\> \>\> VairAgyam\* .  
\>  
\> \>\> dhanyo'smi



\> Blogs :<http://surendrashastram.blogspot.com.>..  
\>  
\> read more »

