+++
title = "000 Dr. Ramanujan"

+++
[[Dr. Ramanujan	2013-03-28, 11:16:47 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/8oEFahyPWJE)]]



Work name – Sanatana Vijnana Samudayah

Author – C Venkataramanaiah, Inspector of Sanskrit Schools (Retired), Mysore.

Publisher - Bangalore Press, Bangalore, 1946.



Sections in the book –

1. Ancient Aryan Physics and Chemistry in general – I to xiv + 1-124 pages

2. Ancient Aryan Geology – I to xi + 1-128 pages

3. Ancient Aryan Botany – I to x + 1-94 pages

4. Ancient Aryan Physiology and Zoology – I to xviii + 1-217 pages



We might see if it can be scanned and put up.



Ramanujan

**From:** Pravesh Vyas \[mailto:[praves...@gmail.com]()\]  
**Sent:** 27 March 2013 14:41  
**To:** [ra...@cdac.in]()  
**Subject:** Re: Re: Wo rkshop on History of Indian Science at IIT Gn, March 16-17



Ramanujan ji,

Thanks for sharing this, Will you please give details of publisher

On Wed, Mar 27, 2013 at 2:35 PM, Dr. P. Ramanujan \<[ra...@cdac.in]()\> wrote:

Sanatana-vijnana-samudayah, a book in Sanskrit/English, by  
Venkataramanachar, published in 1946 from Bangalore has many useful,  
authentic information, running to about 700 pages.  
  
Ramanujan  
On Wed, Mar 27, 2013, pravesh vyas \<[praves...@gmail.com]()\> said:  
  
\> The Best authentic book related to History of Science is "भारत में विज्ञान  
\> की उज्ज्वल परंपरा"(available in Hindi only) written by Suresh Soni Ji  
\> published by अर्चना प्रकाशन, 17, दीनदयाल परिसर, E/2, महावीर नगर,  
\> भोपाल-462016, contact no -0755-2420551 with 70 reference books. Must read  
\> this  
\>  
\> On Sunday, March 17, 2013 2:24:01 AM UTC+5:30, Nanasaheb wrote:  
\>\>  
\>\> March 16, 2013  
\>\>  
\>\> Dear Michel Danino and Dr, RNI  
\>\>  
\>\> Thanks for reply. I am looking for a text book on "History of Science in  
\>\> India" for one semester undergraduate course. Please make suggestions.  
\>\> Thanks. N.R.Joshi  
\>\> -------------------------------------  
\>\>  
\>\>  
\>\> ---------- Original Message ----------  
\>\> From: "Michel Danino" \<[michel...@gmail.com]() \<javascript:>\>  
\>\> To: "'R. Narayana iyengar'" \<[narayana...@gmail.com]() \<javascript:>\>,  
\>\> "'N.R.Joshi'" \<[gira...@juno.com]() \<javascript:>\>  
\>\> Cc: \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() \<javascript:>\>  
\>\> Subject: RE: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Re: Wo rkshop on History of Indian  
\>\> Science at IIT Gn, March 16-17  
\>\> Date: Fri, 15 Mar 2013 17:21:12 +0530  
\>\>  
\>\> Dear Dr. Joshi,  
\>\>  
\>\>  
\>\>  
\>\> Your point is well taken. As part of an attempt to reintegrate India’s  
\>\> traditional knowledge systems into the engineering stream, we do intend to  
\>\> cover technologies, from metallurgy to chemistry, architecture, textile,  
\>\> transport, agriculture etc., but we realized it was hopeless to try and  
\>\> club it all together. Hence this is only one in a series of workshops  
\>\> planned at IIT Gandhinagar, which we have earmarked for astronomy and  
\>\> mathematics as this is already a vast and rich field. (Last August, we  
\>\> organized one on archaeology.)  
\>\>  
\>\>  
\>\>  
\>\>  
\>\> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
\>\> \*Mom is 60 But Looks 25\*  
\>\> Mom Finds Simple Skin Cream That Took off 35 Years of Her Life!  
\>\> \<<http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/5144dc55419ee5c556b2fst01vuc>\>  
\>\> ConsumerLifestyles.net\<<http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/5144dc55419ee5c556b2fst01vuc>\>  
\>\>  
\>  
\> --  
\> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
\> to subscribe go to the link below and put a request  
\> <https://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat/subscribe>  
\> To unsubscribe from this group, send email to  
\> [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]()  
\>  
\> ---  
\> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
\> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
\> Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat?hl=en>.  
\> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/groups/opt_out>.  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\> Email secured by Check Point  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\>  
  
--  
Dr. P. Ramanujan  
AD-IHLC,  
C-DAC, Bangalore (KP)  
[ra...@cdac.in]()  
080-25246350, 66116444 (Off.-Dir.)  
  
  
  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
  
This e-mail is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may  
contain confidential and privileged information. If you are not the  
intended recipient, please contact the sender by reply e-mail and destroy  
all copies and the original message. Any unauthorized review, use,  
disclosure, dissemination, forwarding, printing or copying of this email  
is strictly prohibited and appropriate legal action will be taken.  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  
  



--  
प्रवेशव्यासः

शोधच्छात्रः,

ज्योतिष विभाग,

श्री लाल बहादुर शास्त्री राष्ट्रीय संस्कृत विश्वविद्यालय,

नई दिल्ली-१६ 

and

Assistant Professor,

Department of Jyotish,

Rastriya Sanskrit Sansthan,

Jaipur Campus,

<http://rsksjaipur.ac.in/>



  
  
Email secured by Check Point  
  
=

  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
This e-mail is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may  
contain confidential and privileged information. If you are not the  
intended recipient, please contact the sender by reply e-mail and destroy  
all copies and the original message. Any unauthorized review, use,  
disclosure, dissemination, forwarding, printing or copying of this email  
is strictly prohibited and appropriate legal action will be taken.  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

