+++
title = "004 R. N. iyengar"

+++
[[R. N. iyengar	2021-03-22, 13:33:57 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/nJxdGI0ACLk)]]



Prof.Pandurangi's desire and efforts to improve the standards of Ph.D at KSU is laudable. Whenever we have met we have discussed this topic. I have expressed my views personally and it may not be out of place if I write them again. There seems to be two parts to the points raised by Prof. VNP; General and Particular. I like to write my lingering thoughts on the former only.

General:

First we have to keep in the background the current University Ph.D concepts as per official UGC guidelines. There are good and bad aspects of this. This becomes more pronounced in the case of Sanskritic Ph.D which by definitionhas to be research oriented; that is should produce some new results or bring out hither to less known or unknown knowledge, expressible in writing. This rules out in the case of KSU and similar institutions, development of novel experimental set up and gadgets in general. The visible novelty is a colourfully bound thesis and all Ph.D students (all over the world) look forward to that. The intrinsic value of the research (R) thesis is evaluated on the quality of the matter inside; not so much on the size. KSU has to (IMHO) align and compare its R quality in the current Indian scenario, with high ranking institutions like IISc, IITs, JNU, BHU, RSVP... Here the subject does not matter, it is the innovative questions, ideas, thoughts, joy in understanding abstruse points, zeal for exploring uncharted lands, that matter. These are common traits found in young aspirants intellectually inclined towards dissent and doubting. (Svetaketu is the archetype). Channeling the dynamic intelligence to become value added knowledge and eventually wisdom is perhaps the goal of all research training. If the standard of R in Sanskritic studies in our Sanskrit Univs (SU) has to improve, the inherent limitation contained in the word (not concept) Sanskrit as a language has to be abandoned. This in my opinion remains an albatross around the neck of our SUs. To change the all pervasive mental ruudhyartha to tangible yaugikaarthais the foremost internal challenge for the faculty of the SUs. If we compare for example a student in physics/ aerospace engg etc, the primary sources for R are contemporary and modern. In History by the very definition the primary sources are more often than not, are past/medieval/ancient. IMHO present day SU research is caught in a dilemma since the primary sources of study for the students are by and large saturated before the 19th century. Hence perforce whatever Shastraic R is undertaken, to bring in novelty and innovation the Ph.D thesis has to have a historical perspective. It should be able to delineatethe development of ideas by internalizing the growth of the book/treatise/subject/topic in the past geographical and historical ambience prevalent in our country, that is the Greater India. From the article of Kushaagra (Cornell Univ) and others it is seen that the Indological studies in Western Univs are more or less along the above lines. The difference is they approach the Indic-Field as 'outsiders' with whatever intellectual systems they are trained in. Our Univ Sanskrit Depts including SUs take a narrow approach of a sub-sub-topic for research, just for the sake of a thesis, not for nurturing the growth of a new idea or a School. While there is no quickfix, a strong desire to change and improve will be the motive force to go to the next level. Policy makers have to ponder over how a holistic experience of belonging to a unitary (or integral) Indic tradition intellectually (not just emotionally) can be nurtured among the students.

If there is an academic discussion I may add a few more points later.  

Regards  

  

RN Iyengar



  

  

  

On Sun, Mar 21, 2021 at 11:58 AM R. N. iyengar \<[narayana...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  



