+++
title = "001 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2018-07-02, 02:15:28 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/IjlQo8qN2a8)]]



Namaste Dr Mishra

  

I have no issues with your posting and I do agree.

  

What I wrote was from my personal experience. I have few cousins and sister in laws who obtained Masters. All of them studied Sanskrit only because they were waiting to get married. It was not customary for girls to work during 60's, especially for affluent and upper middle class families. They were encourages to continue studies as much as possible rather than get employed..

  

I also know quite a few scholars who just wanted to study Sanskrit because that was the family tradition and they continued it with full commitment.  

  

I am sure things have changed a lot since then, that is why I was asking the question. I grew-up in a family of Sanskrit scholars but was discouraged to learn Sanskrit. Having learning Sanskrit by "Osmosis" my understanding of grammar is far better than English. That is why I suggested the Ekalavya Model. Every trip to India resulted in addition of Sanskrit books to my personal library. Now, I have a collection of more than 1000 books. Most of them have more highlights, Underlines and Flags than the number of pages.

  

Rather than trying to ask "What" and "Where" to study Sanskrit? Student needs to ask why they should learn Sanskrit !? Answering this question honestly will provide them the direction they are looking for.

  

Rgds

  

Dr. Yadu  

  





--  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.  

