+++
title = "002 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-07-02, 08:15:54 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/IjlQo8qN2a8)]]



Namaste



**On Dr. Yadu’s note : \< Student needs to ask why they should learn Sanskrit !?> **

****

 There are clear answers in traditional schools. This is covered under the scope of the term’ viniyoga’.

 These are relevant even now for study and research. The choice is left to student, and research guides.

 Advanced research in Sanskrit cannot be built on a weak foundation of language.

 Improper research will not open up avenues for glory and wealth.

** **

A) **This ‘ utility-application of Samskrutham’ as ‘ Shabdaanushaasanam’ is the first issue addressed by Patanjali** ( and all Shaastrakaaras) ask and address.

 ‘ Kimartham adhyeyam vyakaranam’ – Why study Samskruth ( Language) –Grammar? How study and guard it? How audit the Standards of teaching, learning , research and utility ? The total response of Patanjali positions Samskruth study as ‘ Yoga of Speech’, a ‘ Vedanga’ study along with five other disciplines and four applications mode and sixty four profession- professional- professionalism building education. And this is the responsibility of ‘ Gur- Gurukul :: Professor as a research guide and University as an Institution guarding the Knowledge tradition for the welfare of Humanity’.



 The traditional technical term for this deliberated as ‘ Shaastra-prayojana / anubandha chatushtaya’.

 The modern term in english for this asking –answering – ‘ W and Wh- questions’.

 Professor Minkowski rearticulated and connected to this question in a contemporary style : What / Why should the study of Sanskrit be for ?



B) **Traditional Schools, teachers, society and text- disciplines provided a clear answer for the question \< why one should learn Sanskrit \> ? **



 The traditional scholars would recall the subhashita \< yadyapi bahu naadheeshe, putra, patha vyaakaranam, … sva-janah shva-jano maa
bhoot,……> . The focus was on clear cultured articulation of words and true communication of thought, aesthetically. There are several subhaashitas which were used as a part of high school education ( both 18^(th),19^(th) and 20^(th) century texts till revision models started coming up in post 1990’s) to convey the importance of learning Sanskrit for the goal of ‘Cultured Speech’ \< keyooraa na vibhooshayanti purusham ….. vaanyekaa samalamkaroti purusham, yaa samskrutaa dhaaryate, ksheeyante khalu bhooshnaani satatam, vak-bhooshanam bhooshanam>.



 The modern and oriental response to this question is clearly locked in to a stone chamber : Study of Sanskrit is to understand the texts of ancient India for understanding the ‘ history, religion, ritual’ ; and so the modeling of Sanskrit language study is to be on the same lane as ‘ Greek and Latin ( classical style = mata-bhaashaa ) OR Hebrew revival / Social English as a conversational social daily usage language ( even if it means total dilution and distortion of standards of language grammar). The logic is simple utilitarian ! The spoon is a spoon, whether made of plastic or gold or platinum. It is a means to take food from bowl and put it in mouth without a ‘ finger touch’ ! Why ? Because ‘ Finger touch’ is considered ‘ polluting and harming to the consumer’! So scuba-drive model of exploration of Sanskrit texts and language becomes order of the day. 



** Those who want to learn swimming cannot start studies by learning road signs for driving ! **

** Those who want to learn Samskrutham and excel in it through research – at India or globally cannot progress if they get locked just to **

** 20% of grammar ( vyakarana), 5% literature (kaavya- Sahitya) and rest loaded with inappropriate translation derived content.**

** The question ‘ Why student should learn Sanskrit’ is integrally linked with the perception of ‘ Why Nations need Sanskrit ( not just for Bharath that has become India; but several other nations which use Yoga for Health care, keeping away ‘Samskrutham’: The language of Yoga ! **

**Making ‘ money’ by mumbo jumbo of sounds as ‘mantras from Sanskrit’ has been prevalent practice in society and harming the study prospect of Sanskrit ! **





I hope this helps to see why the battle: Sanskrit needs to see the clarity in use of ‘Samskrutham’ in the place of anglicized ‘Sanskrit’ ; just like the term ‘ India’ is preferred all over in the place of
native self-identity of nation as Bharath’. Two hundred years is a long enough time to have the shift in linguistic meaning shifts in a society and ‘ preference to drop hard consonants in the names’.



Regards

BVK Sastry



