+++
title = "001 Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)	2015-10-12, 02:36:59 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/UfB_Ga1JPc8)]]



Namaste



Dr. RNI has made some very pertinent observations that need to be addressed :



1. RNI Observation: \< I see here a problem with the definition of what was 'ancient India' and what was 'foreign', in mapping the Dharmic tradition. Textual 'dharma' and practical dharma differ quite widely, but strong desire to have textual sanction exists. \>



**BVK Sastry:** Given the general and wide spread academic concurrence on the understanding that by Mahabharata period, there was sufficient interaction across the boundaries of Aryavarta –Punyabhoomi’ (the focus of Dharma Shastras), what would be ‘ foreign’ in ‘Ancient India’ ?



2. RNI Observation: \< .For example Manusmrti does not consider people living south of Vindhyas to be fit for dhaarmic interaction \>.

**BVK Sastry:** IF Manusmriti has a passage on this point, -in theory or practice going against the grain of vedic teaching, wherefrom did this originate? Because there are enough passages in Manu smriti itself which are universally relevant. For example: Definition of Dharma.



3. RNI Observation: \< This statement is very logical provided "deśa, kāla andśiṣṭas" are left to be floating. Almost every characteristic Sanskrit word or phrase used in current dhaarmic parlance seems to have had variableshades of meaning over time. Smrtis change with "time". But the smrti-kaaras have tried to impose a sense ofhistoricityof ancientnesson the available texts: Thus. pointers of 'dharma' of that 'kala'composed very latelyare ascribed to ancient, Vedic-Rshis.Manu, Parashara, Narada, Vasistha, all have smritis assigned to them, so that people think that these were preached and composed by the most famous, most ancient Vedic Rshis. All lingering doubts in interpretations are supposed to be settled by reference tośiṣṭas. How to locate or identify them now? But in an earlier period the meaning of this word appears to have been etymological, to mean "those who are remaining". We read in Brahmanda Purana Ch 32.37 that those who remained at the end of the manvantara are the originalśiṣṭas. .>



**BVK Sastry: **IF ETYMOLOGY is the anchor of understanding Sanskrit word, THEN one should stay with VEDANGA tradition and tools in understanding the document which is said to be written in Sanskrit (Chandas and Bhashaa Classification model) language. How true are the writings and translations with reference to this ‘Sishta’ Standard of ‘ Shaastra-Paddhati’ ? How did the post 1700 lexicon take over the ETYMOLOGY based anchor in understanding Samskrutham ?



4 . RNI Observation: \< The dhaarmic tradition has all these days modulated itself, without attaching importance to chronological historicity, but managing with the help of ***a-historical*** paradigms such as Kalpas, Manvantaras, avataaras,śiṣṭas etc. In all these ideas the sense of "ancientness" (sanaatana ?) is embedded like a dogma \>.



**BVK Sastry: **This point needs careful analysis. Material sciences are limited by the limits of instruments for Change measurement. All Changes in world are not amenable to measure by instrumentation, for various reasons. The forte of Yoga-Vedanta Science is ‘Observation of Consciousness and its Transformation /Changes’. As long as modern science does not find a way to accept, postulate, find means of measuring ‘Consciousness-Changes and Transformations’, all theories built on this foundation in Yoga and Vedanta remain ‘ Theories and views subject to verification, even though it may be individual experiences’. So should it be called a dogma ?





Regards

BVK Sastry



--  
निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
---  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

