+++
title = "007 Dr.BVK Sastry (Gmail)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (Gmail)	2012-08-03, 09:50:24 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/lERFrJXLxdk)]]



Namaste



Yes \< **" can we do some thing to change the BHAGYAM of our existing troubled generation and future generations also?** \> And why Not ?



Reg \< **preparing a one year action plan for improving the working conditions and living standards of the Sanskrit Teachers through out the length and breadth of our country?** \>, Please stop teaching ‘Sanskrit’ as a historic classical alien dead language in schools ; Start Teaching Samskrutham as language of Yoga for Health and culture. Retrain Sanskrit teachers to teach Samskrutham properly. Samskrutham does not have to be taught like english or French ! Samskrutham is to be taught the way Panini-Patanjali startedand articulated in Gita as ‘ Cultured Communication Training’ ( Anudvegakaram Vaakyam :Bhagavad-Gita Ch.17-sloka 15). The responsibility for this reorientation and training rests in the hands of teachers; not the syllabus creators and text book writers.



1. I am planning to be at the Hindu Mandir Executive Committee -2012 annual meetings at California during Aug 16-20.



2. Is there some material / detailing that can be used to talk to the people on the theme of ‘supporting elderly Sanskrit Scholars’ ? Do we have some numbers and demography ? Names ? review team? Would there be at least one student whom these senior scholars train ? OR can they at least give the best of their knowledge as a video documentation ( on some model of compensation) for the befit of posterity ? Even such thing as ‘ Classical historic religious practices in my generation’ –
‘Memories of scholarly generations’ - as a historic documentation followed with a detailing on dynamics of dharma shastra ( vyaavaharika dharma adoption of the original rule books ; interpretations ; historic information of previous generation scholars, memories). One need to draw a line between eulogizing the scholars; and the real need of Knowledge transmission ( tena tyaktena bhunjeethah). I have heard of great scholarship of Mahamhopaadhyaya Viroopaaksha Shastry, who taught tarka to the Holiness of Sringeri ; but then what next ? How was this taught? What is the pedagogy ? similarly we hear about Dharma Shastra panditas , Panchanga kartas. Appreciation is fine. Relevance and reason to be practically proud of these things is another.



At the cost of being rude, I have voiced many times : We need to work and kick out the epithet ‘ daridro brahmanah’ model from the mind set. Where did this ‘klaibya’ land up in the mind of the brahmanas to keep their bellies empty to keep their heads full ? Did Veda say : Bramane shreeH na ramate’ – does not mean brahmana does not get engaged in productive work and earn wealth. Look at the difference between the worldly life of brahmanas in south and north . Did different vedic rules apply to these communities ? Forget the wrong exits taken in the past; stop bashing the dead horse of ‘ injustice to /by brahamanas’. Figure out how we can put our ‘Vidya’ in a ‘ Artha – Purushartha –Paramartha –karee’ mode. ‘Vedo ha vai braahmanam aajagaama, gopaaya maam, Shevadhishte aham asmi’.



Majority Samskrutham teams are good in talking of kalpaantara themes and memories. Can we scale this down and talk with a focus on our own five generation history ? :What happened in the post 1800 (After Dharma Sindu /Nirnaya Sindhu) / post 1400 (=After Vijayanagar empire) - how local customs have modified the Dharma Shastra. We are following Dharma Sindhu /Nirnaya Sindhu; and not the words of Aapastambha or yajnavalkya ! even though their authority is invoked.



Even granting that Kali influence dominates, the important point is How are we living Dharma ?How dynamics of Dharma –practice is advised in terms of leading a good family life, the paurohitya, the pooja-yajna vidhi, the saamoohika upakarma (- which has almost become a farce by old thread changing occasion), how practical’s of Shraaddha are done in sampradaya families, religious foods –flavors (Like why special vegetables on annual shraaddha day?; keep apart all fancy explanations of ayurveda ! If that were to be the case, then every day the shraaddha bhojana would be recommended). 

We need to start pooling the right questions and ask the elders now.



The proposal for support models need to go for ‘saving some
irrevocably getting lost knowledge traditions and memories’; rather than on purely on humanitarian issues of ‘ medical expenses / personal expenses’ and the like. 



Please do update and advise.



Regards

BVK Sastry



