+++
title = "009 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2012-08-03, 19:38:44 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/lERFrJXLxdk)]]



Namaste:  
  
In this context I would request scholars to ask for themselves whether the approach adopted for teaching and learning Sanskrit in the past has helped to advance or the understanding of subject matter or not !?
Unless this can be acknowledge honestly no progress can ever be made, because "You cannot change if it cannot be acknowledged and define the problem adequately".. In science this is called "Root Cause Analysis".  
  
IMO - All languages were only for communicating thoughts from one individual to the other. j\~naataartho j\~naa na sambandaH shrotu shrothaa pravartate. Most languages have gone through changes in interpolations. Relatively speaking, Sanskrit has fortunately has undergone fewer changes most probably due to the mammoth contributions of PaNini. Thus, the purpose of language is to understand the intended purpose of the original statements. However, if one remains attached to the tool (grammar) then one remains attached to the boat that was supposed to take them to the other shore. After reaching the other shore one needs to get out of the boat. If this does not happen then one keeps on doing only the "SHUTTLE" service. Could this be the real reason when Acharys Shankaracharya made the bold statement "na hi na hi rakshati DukR^i\~n karaNe !? "  
  
Ultimately, we have to help ourselves rather than depending on others, probably for that reason sage Vyasa proposed paaNiivaada -  
  
aho siddhArthatA teShA.n yeShAM santIha pANayaH .  
pANimadbhyaH spR^ihA.asmAka.n yathA tava dhanasya vai .  
na pANi lAbhAdadhiko lAbhaH kashchana vidyate . \|\| ma. bhaa. shaanti parva 174.11.12 \|\|  
  
ayaM me hasto bhagavaanayaM mebhagavattaraH  
ayaM me vishvabheShajoya.aM shivaabhimarshanaH \|\| R^igveda 10.60.12 \|\|  
  
My apologies for the babble  
  
With best regards,  
  
Dr Yadu  
  

