+++
title = "001 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-10-04, 17:10:38 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/8TN2i7tg_Sc)]]



Professor Gennady Zdanovich should know that there are over 50 svastika seals and about 60 uses of the glyph onIndus script inscription corpus. He has to explain this fact.  
kalyanaraman  
The place where Europe began: Spiral cities built on remote Russian plains by swastika-painting AryansBy DAILY MAIL REPORTERLast updated at 10:08 AM on 4th October 2010Bronze age cities built by the Aryans that date back to the beginning of Western civilisation in Europe have been discovered in a remote part of Russia.Archaeologists have identified 20 of the spiral-shaped settlements that were built some 4,000 years ago shortly after the Great Pyramid in Egypt.It is believed that the buildings were used by the original Aryan race whose swastika symbol was later adopted by the Nazis in the 1930s.<http://i.dailymail.co.uk/i/pix/2010/10/03/article-1317362-0B75E11F000005DC-111_470x288.jpg> Desolate: The Bronze Age cities were built some 4,000 years ago by the Aryans in a 400 miles long region of the Russian SteppeTV historian Bettany Hughes explored the desolate part of the Russian steppe which borders Kazakhstan this summer for a BBC Radio 3 programme Tracking The Aryans.She said: 'Potentially, this could rival ancient Greece in the age of the heroes.<http://i.dailymail.co.uk/i/pix/2010/10/03/article-1317362-006FDEFB00000258-141_233x371.jpg>Explorer: TV historian Bettany Hughes was stunned when she saw the bronze age cities on the groundThe remains of the ancient city were explored for the first time around 20 years ago shortly after Soviet officials relaxedstrict laws banning non-military aerial photography.But because of the region is so remote the incredible cities have remained virtually unknown to the rest of Europe until now.They are about the same size as several of the city states of ancient Greece and would have housed between 1,000 and 2,00people.Hughes was driven to the vast region by the expedition's chief archaeologist Professor Gennady Zdanovichwho pointed to the cities that were buried in the ground beneath them.The Aryan's language has been identified as the precursor to a number of modernEuropean tongues.English uses many similar words such as brother, oxen and guest which have all beentracked to the Aryans.Items that have so far been dug up at the sites include make-up equipment, a chariotand numerous pieces of pottery.The artifacts were daubed in swastikas which were used in ancient times as symbols ofthe sun and eternal life.But the swastika and Aryan race were adopted by Hitler and the Nazis as symbols oftheir so-called master race.Evidence of ritual horse burials were found at the site which ties in with ancient Aryantexts that describe the animals being sliced up and buried with their masters.Hughes, a visiting research fellow at King's College London, added: 'Professor Zdanovich took me to this expanse of grass; you couldn't tell there was anything special. Then, as he pointed to the ground, suddenly I realised I was walking across a buried city.  
'Every now and again you suddenly notice these ghostly shapes of fortresses andcattle sheds and homes and religious sites. I would not have known these had he notshown them to me.'These ancient Indian texts and hymns describe sacrifices of horses and burials andthe way the meat is cut off and the way the horse is buried with its master.'If you match this with the way the skeletons and the graves are being dug up in Russia, they are a millimetre-perfect match.'  
<http://www.mailonsunday.co.uk/sciencetech/article-1317362/Europe-begins-Cities-built-swastika-painting-Aryans-remote-Russian-plains.html>  
Unearthed Aryan cities rewrite history  
From: The Sunday Times October 04, 2010 12:00AM , The Australian  
BRONZE Age cities archaeologists say could be the precursor of Western civilisation is being uncovered in excavations on the Russian steppe.Twenty of the spiral-shaped settlements, believed to be the original home of the Aryan people, have been identified, and there are about 50 more suspected sites. They all lie buried in a region more than 640km long near Russia's border with Kazakhstan.  
The cities are thought to have been built 3500-4000 years ago, soon after the Great Pyramid in Egypt. They are about the same size as several of the city states of ancient Greece, which started to come into being in Crete at about the same time.  
If archeologists confirm the cities as Aryan, they could be the remnants of a civilisation that spread through Europe and much of Asia. Their language has been identified as the precursor of modern Indo-European tongues, including English. Words such as brother, guest and oxen have been traced back to this prototype.  
"Potentially, this could rival ancient Greece in the age of the heroes," said British historian Bettany Hughes, who spent much of the northern summer exploring the region for a BBC radio program, Tracking the Aryans.  
"We are all told that there is this kind of mother tongue, proto-Indo-European, from which all the languages we know emerge."I was very excited to hear on the archeological grapevine that in exactly the period I am an expert in, this whole new Bronze Age civilisation had been discovered on the steppe of southern Siberia."She described driving for seven hours into the steppe grasslands with chief archeologist Gennady Zdanovich. "He took me to this expanse of grass; you couldn't tell there was anything special. Then, as he pointed to the ground, suddenly I realised I was walking across a buried city," she said."Every now and again you suddenly notice these ghostly shapes of fortresses and cattle sheds and homes and religious sites. I would not have known these had he not shown them to me."The shape of each of the cities, which are mainly in the Chelyabinsk district, resembles an ammonite fossil, divided into segments with a spiral street plan. The settlements, which would each have housed about 2000 people -- the same as an ancient Greek city such as Mycenae -- are all surrounded by a ditch and have a square in the middle.The first city, known as Arkaim, was discovered in 1989, soon after the soviet authorities allowed non-military aerial photography for the first time.The full extent of the remains is only now becoming apparent. Items that have so far been dug up include many pieces of pottery covered in swastikas, which were widely used ancient symbols of the sun and eternal life. The Nazis appropriated the Aryans and the swastika as symbols of their so-called master race. Ms Hughes believes that some of the strongest evidence that the cities could be the home of the Aryans comes from a series of horse burials.  
Several ancient Indian texts believed to have been written by Aryans recount similar rituals. "These ancient Indian texts and hymns describe sacrifices of horses and burials and the way the meat is cut off and the way the horse is buried with its master," she said. "If you match this with the way the skeletons and the graves are being dug up in Russia, they are a millimetre-perfect match."

# <http://www.theaustralian.com.au/news/world/unearthed-aryan-cities-rewrite-history/story-e6frg6so-1225933563131>

#  

# 4000-year-old Aryan city discovered in Russia

PTI, Oct 4, 2010, 03.30pm IST

LONDON: Russian archaeologists have unearthed some ancient and virtually unknown settlements which they believe were built by the original Aryan race about 4000 years ago.  
  
According to the team which has discovered 20 of the spiral-shaped settlements in remote part of Russia steppe in southern Siberia bordering[Kazakhstan](http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/topic/Kazakhstan), the buildings date back to the beginning of Western civilisation in Europe.  
  
The Bronze-age settlements, the experts said, could have been built shortly after the[Great Pyramid](http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/topic/search?q=Great%20Pyramid)some 4000 years ago by the original Aryan race whose swastika symbol was later adopted by the Nazis in the 1930s.  
  
TV historian Bettany Hughes, who explored the desolate part of the Russian steppe for BBC programme 'Tracking The Aryans', said: "Potentially, this could rival ancient[Greece](http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/topic/Greece)in the age of the heroes."  
  
"Because I have written a lot about the Bronze Age world, there always seemed to be this huge missing piece of the jigsaw puzzle," Hughes was quoted as saying by the Daily Mail.  
  
She said: "We are all told that there is this kind of mother tongue, proto-Indo-European, from which all the languages we know emerge.  
  
"I was very excited to hear on the archaeological grapevine that in exactly the period I am an expert in, this whole new Bronze Age civilisation had been discovered on the steppe of southern Siberia."  
  
The remains of the ancient city were explored for the first time around 20 years ago shortly after then Soviet officials relaxed strict laws banning non-military aerial photography.  
  
But because of the region is so remote the incredible cities have remained virtually unknown to the rest of[Europe](http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/topic/Europe)until now, according to the archaeologists  
  
They are about the same size as several of the city states of ancient Greece and would have housed between 1,000 and 200 people, they said.  
  
Hughes was driven to the vast region by the expedition's chief archaeologist Professor Gennady Zdanovich who pointed to the cities that were buried in the ground beneath them.  
  
The Aryan's language has been identified as the precursor to a number of modern European tongues. English uses many similar words such as brother, oxen and guest which have all been tracked to the Aryans.

  
<http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/world/europe/4000-year-old-Aryan-city-discovered-in-Russia/articleshow/6683681.cms>

