+++
title = "001 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-04-15, 15:26:45 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/y_8aJFMmcJk)]]



Namaste



1. You are asking a theoretical question on a Practice instruction.



2. The technicality of term ‘ Samaadhi’ as Yogaanga is clear in *तद् एवार्थमात्रनिर्भासं स्वरूपशून्यम् इव समाधिः ॥ ३॥ *where ‘ Samaadhi’ is an advanced phase of ‘ dhyaana’- \< *तत्र** प्रत्ययैकतानता ध्यानम्* \> ; It is not just an extension or crossing the border. The entire process is progressive unification.



If you contemplate on the sutra 3 and take a look at the way it back-connects to dhyana, do you notice that ‘ artha- nirbhaasa’ part is instruction to advance dhyana to dhaaranaa . Simple practice of ‘ pratyayaikataanataa’ is augmented with the additional guidance of ‘artha- nirbhaasa’.



3. The word ‘ ekatra’ in ***त्रयम्****** **एकत्र** **संयमः* **does not translate to the lexicon meaning of ‘ integration’. The practical instruction translates to \< When Unified to one Focus , one point, Chosen point, Same point or region \> the resultant chitta-vrutti is given the technical name ‘ Samyama’. This is not lexicon translation of ‘ self- control’.



This precisely is the problem of ‘Self-study’ disconnected from ‘ Sampradaya Shuddhataa’ and ‘Learning under guidance of a qualified master’.



In Yoga –sutra, the definition and instructions run concurrent and consistently. The practice supersedes the translation – lexicon model of analysis.



Regards

BVK Sastry



--  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

