+++
title = "004 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-04-15, 17:16:50 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/y_8aJFMmcJk)]]



Namaste



On \< **We are clear as to what samyama is, but we are not clear as to what samyama is in contradistinction to samadhi.** \> : 



1. This is like :

 a) Verbal Clarity like understanding ‘ Moon is a separate entity in space as compared to stars and other planets ; they are seen stuck to the inverted spherical bowl above my head in space’. I do see them through the telescope. This is seeing ‘Dharana –Dhyana-Samadhi’ in a progressive journey, before hitting on to that level of Chitta vrutti.
This is an intellectual satisfaction, like telling a child : electron is different from proton. The child just accepts the statement on authority of the sayer.



 b) The contradistinction of ‘ Samyama’ to ‘ Samadhi’ will become clear only in practice ; like watching the Mars and stars, standing on the moon and taking a look at the rest of the cosmos, at which time, the instruction on earth at yoga-studio yields a totally
different experiential understanding. 



2. A Mahayogi like Patanjali documents this guidance for yoga journey, in Language: Samskrutham, as the most preferred language for
compact and precise expression, in the format of a Sutra.

 Another advantage of Choosing Samskrutham is that even a time-space distanced practitioner can get a clear road map for yoga journey, even after some 2000 years; if one knows yoga way of learning –using Samskrutham.



