+++
title = "010 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-04-17, 14:30:03 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/y_8aJFMmcJk)]]



Namaste



When one misses



(a) the significance of the following sutra on ‘ VINIYOGA, in the context of Samadhi to Samyama, there itself and reading \< Tasya (= Samyamasya) Bhoomishu **VINIYOGAH**\> - A critical concept which Dr. Yadu keeps dinning on this forum on various occasions with respect to ‘Vedic Studies as well as other studies’ and every other exploration,



And



(b) read Yoga-Sutra Practice guidance as interpretation - ‘ by definition as explained by the Commentator’,



This is what happens !



1. On \< why do the following sUtras prescribe samyama for the **attainment of various purposes** (siddhis etc), and not simply samAdhi? > : ‘Various Purposes’ are the detailing of the ‘ VINIYOGA’= Application Utility. Samadhi alone does not do. To say it in a lighter yet effective way, Nature provides seeds to grow grapes. But
different kinds of human effort and instruments, time line processes, tools are needed to make different products like juice or wine .



 The guidance to achieve Siddhis, like making juice or wine from Grapes ( = Samadhi) needs UTILITY APPLICATION GUIDANCE ( Viniyoga)
IN RIGHT PLACES ( *Bhoomishu*). One needs to have Samadhi and work with other Yogaangas also. Nature does not grow canned juice and bottled wine ! Human effort is needed, because the practitioner desires to have a different Taste !



2. On \< each of dhAraNa and dhyAna must serve a unique purpose that is not fulfilled by samAdhi. The question is, what is it? \> : Yes, They do serve a VINIYOGA purpose .

 Each dhaaranaa and dhyana serves a unique purpose ; The desire to have a purpose served is also covered in the concept of ‘ VINIYOGA’ / NI- YOGA / PRA- YOGA .



3. When ‘ SAMYAMA - VINIYOGA’ is to TRANSCEND SAMADHI ‘ then the GOAL is called ‘ KAIVALYA. This is NOT getting caught up with Siddhi’s.

 ‘Tasya Bhoomishu Viniyogah’ is much more than making ‘ Samyama’ as a paribhashaa . It is guidance for application- utility, set by the practitioner.



 There have been earlier posts on this forum explaining difference between SAMADHI and KAIVALYA ( The significance of Foruth Chapter of PYS after Third Chapter talking about SAMADHI.



Regards

BVK Sastry



