+++
title = "016 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-04-18, 10:49:55 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/y_8aJFMmcJk)]]



Namaste Harsha Wardhan



The response goes long to provide specifics pointers to the root-defect in your argument reading \< what is Yoga if not a soteriology? **I humbly refuse to admit that we cannot use such closely aligned systems to compare and see for ourselves how nomenclature differed while referring to the same processes/methods.** > 



You are free to make your choices to hold your position, using the ‘ academic freedom’, after going through the details below.



1. Thanks for your interest in going through Bhoja on the design of ‘ Samapatti’ vis-a vis Samadhi, in the framework of PYS 3-42.

 I would suggest a caution in reading Bhoja. Notice clearly that Bhoja is unifying Yoga and Vedanta traditions as appropriate in the VYASA –BAADARAYANA sampradaya. Vyasa-Bhashya is presenting Yoga-Sutra within Yoga sampradaya. Vijnana-Bhikshu ports Buddhist ideation in the commentary. Vedanta-Acharyas pick the ‘Ashtanga-yoga’ tools of practice and push yoga from its ‘ Kaivalya’ point to ‘ Moksha’ point.



 Soteriology, by definition is an absolute misfit pursuit in the yoga-framework ! even under ‘Ishwara – Pranidhana’ and invoking authority of ‘ Gita –18-66’ under ‘ Moksha Sannyasa Yoga :
sarva-dharmān parityajya, mām ekaḿ śaraṇaḿ vraja ; ahaḿ tvāḿ sarva-pāpebhyo ; mokṣayiṣyāmi mā śucaḥ \|\|



 Many modern Yoga schools do not see the dovetailed integrity of Yoga works through the technicality of Samskrutham: the language of Yoga, as presented in Panini-Patanjali-Yaska tradition. Also, the goal of ‘Yoga for wellness as a 7 trillion USD market is not aligned to ‘ Kaivalya – Moksha Goals’; not even soteriology ! Yoga is being explored for weaponizing and productizing. 



2. On \< Extraneousness ….. > You state \< ****I repeat, to avoid confusion - I am talking about the practice (of intense mental contemplation) and how it has different terms/names in similar traditions, not about the names/terms per se. ****… ***I am focusing on the practice itself. Not the terms. Here, Patanjali gives me difficulties in understanding. \> ***

 The line of pursuit you may be looking with a ‘ specific focus on practice’ seems to me as a pointer to your desire to find a practical tool to access intermediary targets, shunned in PYS framework ! and ‘Shaastra – jijnyasa’ practice guidance. The pursuit of practice goes way beyond ‘ scoring a brownie point in debate’ in public forum exchanges . 

 There is a clear distinction between the traditional approach to explain the path and progress in Yoga. This is ‘ atha’ part of 'अथ योगानुशासनम् ॥ 1-1॥ starting with Life-style: yama and niyama (2-28 and 2-29) as foundation, pre-qualification and binding commitment of a Yogi to the universe. **‘Samyama guidance comes to one who has graduated the class of ‘ Samadhi’.** Samyama is great progress built on the practice-foundation of ‘ yama- niyamas’. It is not an idle debate or a curiosity or separated from the ultimate goal set in ‘ adhyaatma/ Vedanta’. 



 Current Yoga –practices in several schools is no where closer or clear on this issue. PYS -Sutra –TOC - organization and framework
defines how to study PYS or any other Yoga-Text , how to personalize and customize principles for practice, within the boundaries of guidance provided and goals set. It is NO RESTRICTION on Academic pursuit ; but a clear caution to exercise due diligence in debate and dialogues, with due regard to the Means, Methods, System Audit and Value Checks. The section headings - in PYS provide the four boundaries of Yoga-Shaastra practice, as : Samadhi (Principles, roadmap) - Sadhana ( Tools and Processes) -Vibhooti ( Utility Applications) - Kaivalya (System Audit and Value Checks based on Principles).



2a) Coming to specific term ‘samyama’ : 



**Why are todays ‘academic – yoga ’ seekers fascinated to invest, engage and explore ‘samyama part only Yoga, starting with samadhi’
in the frame work of ‘ PYS or any open ended shaastra – theology –religion cross boundaries ’ ? **without strong foundation of the ‘ yogaangas’ ?? Certainly this motivation and drive is not the model goals set in ‘ Yoga for Adhyatma – Vedanta’ ! 



 The fascination of 'teams outside the framework of Vedic Vision of end goal as ‘Jnana / Moksha/ Satya darshana/ Viveka' are fascinated in the exploration of this ‘Siddhi’ section, as it provides a practical path for power ! The exploration is glorified as Science of Consciousness, Psycho-Kinesis, Matter – Conscious control over Nature- Matter in Space - Time. Indian seekers were no exception to this consideration! whether Buddhists, Jains or Tantra - Mantra - Aaagama - Ayurveda discipline related teams. Yoga for these lines was marked as ‘ Upa- Veda ( Applied Veda) – UPA-YOGA ( USEFULLNESS) - VINIYOGA (- UTILITY BENEFIT IN THIS LIFE, Here and Now). Dr. Yadu has pointed in many earlier posts on ‘importance of VINIYOGA’. 



 The theology driven modern science explorers use soft terms, non-Samskruth terms , Samskruth terms with limited meaning translation cleaned up for their Veda- Yoga- Paribhashaa and referential frames,
tagging yoga terms and measures with terms and concepts in Abrahamic traditions, to seek solution for market goals.



 ‘Weaponizing and commoditizing Yoga through AI systems’ is not a fantasy ! It is a reality being deliberated by big players internationally. The secular name for this would be like ' Science - Religion studies, Brain initiative, Vedic Science, Yogic Science et al'.




 **I place below how ‘Samyama – Yoga Practice sutras in PYS ’ have found concept- translation across market disciplines**:



 **Samyama** - This term' samyama' occurs first time in PYS
(3-4) - siddhi section, starting with the technical definition, made within the ambit of ' Yoga-Sutras'. This term occurs only in third chapter and not other sections. Samyama is ' Utility Application Guidance'= VINIYOGA for a Goal, a benefit. The Yoga- Samskrutham technical term for this is ' Siddhi', translated in religion and theology as ' miraculous powers, magical powers'.



 The term 'Samyama' is specifically is mentioned 12 times in
third chapter PYS sutras; The term is 'inherited across the entire section in forty plus sutras pointing to 'Utility Application' **benefits, when applied / used outbound** ( **Vyutthane Siddhayah**)'. The purpose of practicing ‘Yoga’ in Yoga-Sutra, Yoga- Shaastra,
Yoga-Vedanta tradition is NOT to pursue these 'Siddhis'. These seekers are ‘ researchers and academicians’ who are not ' practitioners for
purity of tradition, traditional text, practice, goals and standards'. These seekers look for a 'market- benefit as Utility- Application' in the place of 'Atma- Jnana / Moksha / Satya Darshana' utility-applications of Yoga in Shaastra- Sampradaya.



 I agree that market is huge and need is immense ; money and power to be the ' King of Universe, Lord of the Cosmos, Super-Man, Master-Controller of destiny' is a huge motivation, desire and attraction ! But Patanjali goads to overcome all these and go farther in yoga-purusit: ते समाधावुपसर्गा व्युत्थाने सिद्धयः ॥ 3-३७॥



 **The mapping connection of PYS sutras guiding the practice of ‘Samyama’ as Yoga – Samadhi Sutra pursuit’ in the context of Markets , health and defense applications is placed below: **



(3-17): for Multilingual Spoken expression comprehension and goals of AI for Weaponizing and Productizing ‘Human Tongue’.

(3-21): Invisibility

(3-22): Knowledge of future events, also known as Time-Travel forwards and backwards:: Kaala- jnana through Vedanga Jyotisha, Jyotir-darshana yoga, Viswa-Roopa yoga.

(3-26: Knowledge of Space Time – Matter- Energy Consciousness
Universal Dynamics.

(3-35): Ultimate Knowledge of Conscious being known as Purusha.

(3-41): Distance Hearing and audition.

(3-42: Levitation, which science would see as phenomenon of
anti-gravity, dark matter interactions, violations of known laws of physical material fields- forces- energies and transformations in this universe.

(3-44): Victory and control over the elemental Nature, technically called Pancha-Bhootas of Prakruti, eventually yielding eternal youth and body fit for endless diversities of pleasures, Energy-Healing,

(3-47): A pathway to conquer the ' indriyas' – unlimited power to have sensual enjoyment without fatigue and failure.

(3-52): A pole star pointer to ultimate discernment of ' Time - Space Existential Transformations ( which Buddhists would call as ' eternal Change, Flow, Transcience, Shoonya'; Terrestrial life and beings. E.T’s .





2b) On \< **practice underpinning the various terms was the same across similar disciplines** \> : **This is a bold statement, on a slippery ground** ! The term’ ball’ means different in different games like Cricket, football, baseball and tennis. \< **Sameness of term for Sameness of practice across similar disciplines> is not the norm of ‘Shaastra’. The expression \< तन्त्रान्तरसिद्धसंज्ञा \> does not mean
this.** \>



 The’ paribhashaa term’ - **\< सिद्- संज्ञा** \> if borrowed from a different discipline (तन्त्रान्तर ), needs to be understood in the **same way as it was coined** in the source discipline (तन्त्रान्तर)
and not the way one likes in the ‘borrowed context’. This is the technical need for framing Shaastra-specific technical Terminology like ‘ Samyama’ .



 This is called the ‘ Language Tools customization and contextualization’ as ‘ paribhashaa’ to firm up the ‘ Idea-
Documentation, Usage and Communication without confusion’. Paribhashaa is defining specificity of language- term and its specific usage in a technical way in specified discipline. Paribhashaa over rules the generic ‘bhashaa’ convention. Science groups call this as ‘ Technical Terms listing’.



 This is a ‘ Language –Tool Utility-Application issue’ much maligned in the freewheeling academia and ‘ Sanskrit-translations’ ending up in criticizing traditional texts and scholars. **The fact remains that the ‘ traditional scholars now have to relearn how to present ‘ technical spiritual linguistic expressions of tradition’ in modern idiom and disciplines in an alien foreign social language- context ’.** This is where ‘ in-house traditional schools have a backlog’ and price to pay for the ‘toleration of three centuries of ‘ inappropriate translations, discipline invasions and digressions’ ‘ which have damaged the ‘ understanding, utility, practical use of Yoga- Samskrutham’.



 This is a different dimension and world of study. The current paradigm of ‘ Samskrutham pedagogy’, presented as a social historical ‘ foreign-language’ under the shadow of (i) PIE model of
linguistics (ii) Darwinian Science – Cosmology model and (iii) Religion- Theology –Soteriology driven spirituality needs to undergo a paradigm shift. This is a move of ‘Sanskrit’ to ‘ Yoga-Samskrutham’: Technical Language of Yoga (- Vak-Yoga / Veda – Vak- Yoga / Mantra- Vak- Yoga/ Brahmana- Vak Yoga/ DevaVak Yoga)’. A move from ‘Social linguistics’ to ‘Sacred Spiritual Linguistics’ ; A restoration of status of Samskrutham from ‘ As it is debated ’ to ‘ As it was designed for use’.



 Shaastra-Sampradaya has clarity on all these nuances.
Patanjali, as \<yoga- Bhashaa> shaastrakaara sees and presented
this clarity in three disciplines associated with his name, used in ‘Ashtanga Yoga Schools’ :



 Chitta- Yoga – Technicality of Samskruth Language used for Yoga-Shaastra.

 Vak-Yoga - Technicality of Yoga to understand Samskrutham as
Language of Applied Yogas. 

 Ayur-Yoga- Technicality of Yoga-Samskrutham Language in
Ayur- Veda/Yoga-Shaastra for the utility benefits of Healthy Longevity for pursuit of adhyatma through yoga-practice, for which body is an instrument.



 **When** the text of Yoga-Sutra ( 199 crisp statements - during 200 BCE circa) comes out as a crisp summary of Srimad Bhagavad- Gita Yoga-shaastras ( 3100 BCE – circa from Veda- Vyasa tradition, prior to Buddha ( 700 BCE Circa:: a summary document of Vedic Yogas in 2800 lines organized in to 18 chapters, to be interpreted as ‘ upanishat, Brahma-Vidya, Yoga-Shaastra, Smruti’ - a multilayered Yoga- Discourse and Dialogue between two yogis, using Samskrutham ( a language with a history time line going behind 4100 BCE – circa) for language of
deliberation over the nuances of UTILITY- APPLICATION DIRECTIVES arising out of Veda anchored Yogas, 



 **When** Patanjali, the believed / supposed author of ‘ Yoga-Sutra’ is also the master of three unified traditions of Yogas and Yoga- Language (Samskrutham)



** When** all the ‘Darshana Shaastras (Vedic and Non-Vedic) use ‘ Yoga /Ashtaanga-Yoga as a practice tool customized for their
disciplines,



There will be \<*** difficulties in understanding Patanjali >
***> without adequate preparedness to understand the language of text and flow of text in tradition over two millennia; not to mention the three centuries prolific writings and shifts in perspectives for yoga-studies.



 2c) I hope the above detailing helps to see the cascading defect in your arguments using ‘ Abrhamaic theology modeled hypothesis’ , namely (i) \< Sadanga Yoga is a cousin of Ashtanga Yoga, Samkhya is the mother of Yoga praxis, Upanishads are the origin of almost all Indian soteriologies \> **and **(ii) \< what is Yoga if not a soteriology> . By positioning your analysis of Yoga: Samyama – Samdhi on the ground of ‘ Soteriology’, you have already slipped out of ‘ Yoga’ framework.



 In PYS (or even for that matter, Gita and Upanishads),
(technically defined ) Ishwara is not a ‘savior’ or ‘son of God’ or ‘ agent of God’ ! The ‘ devataa’ is not always in ‘ Ishwara mode’. Sri Rama is not always explained as ‘ Shuddha – Brahma – paraat –para’ in Ramayana narrative. There is a role play as ‘ avataara’. ‘Avataara’ has a beginning and end with a built in purpose; ‘Para-Brahma’ has no beginning, no end, no worldly purpose. 



 Yoga does not stop at the end of a life and wait for a ‘ judgement day ruling to direct journey to heaven or eternal hell’.
Buddhists pursued Yoga much the same way as ‘ Non Vedic Schools (= avaidikas)’, coming close to modern researchers who want to keep away from ‘God –Guru based Religion –Scripture and Language of God’. Buddhists used Yoga guidance, with a keen eye – less talk on ‘Siddhi’s; and less focus- all talk on ‘Buddhas Wisdom for Salvation’. You may explore ‘ Neela-pataakaa Buddhism’, one of the 700 schools broadly coming under Vajrayana for this.



 Soteriology is defined as ‘ the doctrine of salvation, **especially the Christian doctrine of salvation through Jesus Christ’** is NOT the same as ‘ PYS First proposition defining Yoga
(1-2) and Last goal post statement presenting the experiential
outcome of Yoga ( PYS – 4-34: पुरुषार्थशून्यानां गुणानां प्रतिप्रसवः कैवल्यं स्वरूपप्रतिष्ठा वा चितिशक्तिरिति ॥ ३४॥ \>



 I hope this explains the ‘Samyama – Samadhi – Samapatti’ in PYS and Gita frameworks of Yoga discourse- directives in Samskrutham.

Regards

BVK Sastry



**From:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() \[mailto:[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\] **On Behalf Of** ?????????? Harsha Wardhan  
**Sent:** Wednesday, 18 April, 2018 6:54 AM  
**To:** भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्





--  



