+++
title = "021 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-04-18, 16:02:23 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/y_8aJFMmcJk)]]



Namaste Harshwardhan



1. I respect your wish . \< I do not wish to join issue on …. \>. It is your call. I have provided an ‘omnibus view’ on ‘Yoga’ in the context of your post. Nothing personal.



2. On \< My use of the English term ‘Soteriology/\`ical’ also caused a tangential exposition on your part (not without merits, though). I just wish to submit that the definition you provided seems to be from the Merriam-Webster dictionary. I believe these western lexicographers simply gave the America-centric, popular explanation of the word as generally understood over there. I used the word to invoke the sense of*Moksha* in the Chaturvarga Purushartha (Dharma, Artha, Kama, Moksha) context. If you read the word in that sense, you will realize why I called Yoga soteriological. Perhaps I would have been better served if I had used the word *“mukti”*. *If you dispute this, kindly tell me where you would put the practice of Yoga in the purushartha framework.* \>.



Yes, When in doubt on a language- term- usage, one refers to lexicon, accepted usage and context. Had you put in other term like ‘ liberation’, self-realization’, this might not have happened. 



With this note, your statement needs to be re-read as \< **what is Yoga if not a ‘ (Chaturvarga-Purushartha / Mukti’ \>** . This is traditional position from yoga-vedanta schools. There is no dispute in this position. This is one of the perspectives to understand Yoga in the context of Vedanta.



 Within this school, there is a raging classical argument on relative hierarchical grading of (Dharma- Artha- Kama – Moksha) – superiority of Dharma, suppression of Kama, non-acquisition of wealth issues. The responses vary in each sampradaya – varna –ashrama. 



 Practice of Yoga for Purushartha is one model of Applied Yoga =
Upa-Yoga = Viniyoga. This is \< Yoga in the framework of Purushartha>.



3. I agree : \< I stick to the opinion that all yoga systems are valid and complete in themselves \>. The specific emphasis is to be on ‘ **complete in themselves’** which many academicians may not like.



4. Point specific answers to your statement :



4a) On \< **(i) Within the PYS framework, does s*amadhi* include *dhyana* and *dharana* within itself or not? **> : The considered answer is’ NOT ALWAYS’.



The term 'samadhi' occurs 9 times with context sensitive meanings , identification- and practice instructions in PYS. The inclusion of 'Dhyana – Dhaarana ' in Samadhi is context specific understanding. The term occurrences’ are as follows:



The title of first chapter carries the heading with the term defining the focus as 'समाधि'. The title tag provides a unique inheritance to all sutras in first chapter. First chapter does not speak about ‘Samyama’.



1-20 : Samadhi is a means and checkpoint on the goal to 'chitta-vrutti-nirodha'.

1-46: Samadhi has ' a sa-beeja' state.

1-51: Nirbeeja-Samadhi is a progress from 'sa-beeja samadhi'.



Under Saadhana- Paada, the term Samadhi has specific purpose and connotations, focused on PRACTICE:



2-2: The yoga directives given in 2-1 are for to facilitate ' samaadhi-bhavanaa' and ' reduction of kleshas'.

2-29: Samadhi is a yogaanga.

2-45: ' Ishwara-Pranidhana' mentioned in (2- 32) is the practice
instruction for the achievement of Samadhi ( covered under 2-29).



Under Vibhooti- Paada, the term Samadhi has specific Application Utility purpose related connotations:



3-3: Dharnaa of instruction type in (3-1), Dhyana of instruction type in (3-2), Advanced Dhyana of (3-2) with a certain specificity as 'artha-maatra- nirbhasam, svaroopa shoonyam iva' is given the technical name 'samadhi' (covered under Yogaanga: 2-29).



Under Kaivalya - Paada, the term Samadhi has specific Goal oriented advancing in yoga beyond ‘Samyama’. 



4-1: 'Samadhi' when applied as viniyoga under (3-4 to 3-6) is one way of attaining miraculous powers and control over Prakruti. Other options being 'birth inheritance, aushadhi,mantra, tapas.



4-29: The most advanced state of Samadhi, progressing towards 'Kaivalya' is called 'Dharma- Megha' state.



4b) On \< **ii) Within the PYS framework , how does the answer to (i) change in the context of *samyama*? **> : The textual position on
‘Samyama’ endorses that it is a specific instruction in the Third chapter context. The relation between ‘Samadhi- Samyama’ in third chapter is of unique nature. All the meanings of ‘ Samadhi’ do not extend through out, equally at all sutras and places and all chapters.




The ‘ incorrectness is in inappropriate application of \< Yoga-Samskrutha – Paribhashaa> in interpreting PYS chpaters.

It is like the use of the word ‘ soteriology’ which, in the source language has a different meaning; but you used it in a different sense; and that triggered tangential debate.



**Having said all this, due to the narrow view of seeing ‘ PYS as primary Yoga resource’, in isolation does not go far to answer the ‘ Samadhi – Dharna – Dhyana’ connections. **

****

**Therefore the question raised by me in the last post, on “Yoga- Samaadhi connection” Present in Gita and hidden in PYS remains unattended. **

****

**It is here that I maintain the position: To understand Gita as ‘Yoga-Shaastra, PYS is needed ; To understand PYS Practice, one needs Gita study; And both documents need ‘Vak- Yoga way of studying Samskrutham’ : Language of Yoga discourse document . Error in
recognizing the criticality of ‘ Paribhashaa of \<Sabda + Artha = Vak) ’ - the language- Technicality and Spirituality of the document
is the error that needs to be addressed.**



