+++
title = "020 Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)	2015-05-05, 12:23:56 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/9fpyxiU8f0c)]]



Namaste



On the observation :\< Sanskrit today has another problem when it comes to representation in a modified Roman script. There are so many encodings (WX, Harvard-Kyoto, iTrans, Velthuis etc.) in addition to the IAST, that many scholars are put off. For instance, a group of students started a study of the play आगमाडम्बरः of Jayanta Bhatta; though the Clay Sanskrit Library made a version in their own version of IAST available, the person who took the initiative re-typed in Devanagari! This should caution us against too much tinkering. So on balance, my view is that letting things be is the best course of action. >





This is NOT ANOTHER PROBLEM! This is the major problem that needs attention, especially in Sanskrit Computational linguistics claims !



The Three baskets in which this ‘ ANOTHER PROBLEM’ needs to be addressed has Three hydra heads .

(1) ‘ Script order and sets differential

 (2) Phonemic Voice order differentials’ accentuated due to first one by writing Sanskrit (Both Bhashaa and Chandas) in the Indian language Variants with a ‘Prakrit touch’ and ‘Roman Script convention of several varieties noted

(3) The ‘Accent’ (= Swara –Prakriyaa) processing issues that sub differentiate the Bhahsaa and Vedas , where in Pratishaakhya and Shikshaa works come in to play.



All these are muddled up with add on layers drawn from ‘ linguistics, translation and indology research streams’ where ‘ language is
considered as valuable only to the extent of a peripheral significance and as disposable simply as a diaper’.



When a document in Vedic Sanskrit, a language which is sensitive to the slightest modifications in ‘accent –sequence and ordering’ is subject to all the above cooking and is used to derive the ‘Meaning, Purpose and Identity through a Yajna ritual’ as understood today ( which certainly may not be the same as it was understood or composed some 6000 years ago ), and is used globally for ‘Vedic document and language studies’, How wise would it be wise to take a stand \< letting things be is the best course of action. > ?



Wise people to please guide further.

Regards

BVK Sastry



