+++
title = "000 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2016-04-19, 04:27:28 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/-J9MMqhllew)]]



April 18, 2016



I thank Dr. Rani S Murthy, for his post on polytheism in Sanatan dharma.



Please understand. I am not presenting my religion to people of different religion. My research is for understanding my own religion.

Shounaka has compiled hundreds of Devatas from Rigveda. In Rigveda there are different mantras for these devatas.

Thank you Dr. V. sundersen and Dr. N. Paturi. I was not referring to mantra and Devata for Brahmajnaana. That is different.

Brihaddevata of Shaunaka contains a large number of devatas. His effort to bring these devatas and their names together in his book indicates that these names were current at his time (around 400BC) in the ancient society. At least some devatas come with their own Ris’is, mantras and chandas. Mantras and Devatas in Brihaddevata are from Rigveda. Oblations are given to a devata, example “ Agnim Jus’Tam nirvaapayaami”. Now there are other two names (devatas) for Agni-Jaataveda and VaisvaaNara. It is said that Agni is in the earth sphere, Jaataveda in middle sphere (of Indra and Vaayu) and Vaishvaanara is in the sphere of the sUrya.

My question was-Are the phala of giving oblations to these three is the same or different ? How to decide? Do the names Jaataveda and Vaishvaanara (digestive fire in stomach) offer any clue to their functions? Wherever it is possible Shaunaka offers etymology of their names. At other places he tells myth (aakhyayana, story) about their names. So the name of the book “Myth as argument” (scholars can correct me here).

I do understand devotion to one’s Is’ta devata (such as Raama and Krshna) may offer him god realization. Geeta says namaskar to all devas go to Keshava. Then what was the purpose of all these devatas ? Who imagined them? Do they really exist? Look at the names ---Apaam Napaat, Aja ekapaada, Vaata(wind), Pathya, Swasti, Laaks’a, and name of the historical king Taarks’ya is also included, Names of rivers are included as devatas. Other devatas SuparNa, Dadhikra and many more. Other names like Raaka Siniwali, Kuhu, Gungu etc already mentioned by me. The name of one devataa is ka (Prajaapati).This is interesting. Why k ?

Deva, Devataa, Daivata, Daivam. Are they derived from the root Div- to shine, be bright, to gamble, to throw, cast, (polysemy of Sanskrit roots). We often talk about Adhibhautika and Adhyatmika levels(Brahman, Aatman). What is the function of the level Adhidaivika?

In Rikvidhaana of Shaunaka, mantras are prescribed for very mundane problems (not for sacrifice).

Please enlighten us so we make progress in our understanding of our own religion. Please do not tell me that everything came from Brahman/Aatman. I know those answers. I have no intension to defend my religion against other religions. I did research on other religions long ago. For those religions I studied the history of ancient Middle-East countries. It was rewarding.Thanks. N,R,Joshi



  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**Affordable Wireless Plans**  
Set up is easy. Get online in minutes.  
Starting at only $9.95 per month!  
](http://www.netzero.net?refcd=nzmem0216)[www.netzero.net](http://www.netzero.net?refcd=nzmem0216)

