+++
title = "002 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-09-04, 19:04:41 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/0Bx17WIRZ-M)]]



धन्योस्मि

धन्यवादःकल्याणरामन

  

Dear Dr. Panchamukhi,

  

How can I forget you, Vadiraj ji? My association with you is fresh in my memory and I will cherish for the rest of my life. The contributions you have made to propagate Sanskrit and India's stature in SAARC will be remembered forever. I am now promoting the constitution of Indian Ocean Community (IOC) -- Hindumahasagar parivaar which will be a $6 trillion GDP powerhouse. As Geoerge Coedes the great French epigraphist noted, many in the IOC rim are Hinduised states of Southeast Asia celebrating a Hindu-Bauddham continuum in Dharma-Dhamma (Gautama the Buddha called it esha dhammo sanantano).

  

I have arranged to send 2 copies to you. I will deem it a privilege if you choose to review it.

  

I will be happy to reach a copy to any interested member of the bvparishat group. My email is [kaly...@gmail.com]()

  

I would NOT comment on or critique the work of Dr. SR Rao, Dr. Rajaram and Dr. Jha. Their contributions to our understanding of our heritage is exemplary and have added enormously to our knowledge.

  

I think the glyphs do not connote syllabic or alphabetic renderings. I have given hieroglyptic rebus readings of many glyphs of the script, the pictorial motifs in particular and many signs which are clearly identifiable glyphs, e.g. fish, rim-of-jar, rimless pot, trough in front of animal (including wild animals), count of linear strokes, svastika. I am surprised that almost all the glyphs of the script fall into a set of homonymous glosses into one semantic category: repertoire of stone workers (called sangataraasu in Telugu). Maybe, this has something to do with the standard device shown over 1000 times which is: sangaDa, gimlet, portable furnace. Gimlet! The stone workers were turners. More important, the civilization did NOT vanish; the cultural continuum exemplified also in Indian linguistic area (sprachbund or language union) lives with us even today. Hence, the cyphertext attack using a cypher-plain-text of 300,000 glosses of the sprachbund, stands subject to validation in cryptology using 'unicity distance' (pace Shannon's mathematical theory of communication).



