+++
title = "000 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2016-05-19, 02:52:12 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/uyCGwUI7RtE)]]



May18, 2016



Dear Dr. J Prasad,

Please send your address again to me. I accidently deleted now. I am soory for giving you trouble. Thanks. N.R.Joshi  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: Jsr Prasad \<[jsrap...@gmail.com]()\>  
To: भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत् \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} About History of Science and/or Technology  
Date: Wed, 18 May 2016 13:11:39 +0530  
  

Dear Prof. N.R. Joshi ji,  
  

Namaskar. Thanks for your reply. I sent a private email to you with my postal address. You may please post it, once you acquire the copy.  
  

Regards,

Prasad

  

On Tue, May 17, 2016 at 2:27 AM, N.R.Joshi \<[gira...@juno.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> > May 16, 2016 >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Prof J. Prasad, Thanks for your interest in my paper on the ancient > Indian steel. It will take time to find paper in my library. It was > published long ago. It may not be ready to email. I suggest you please > give me your office or home postal mailing address. When I find it , I > will either email or use postal mail. Thanks. N.R.Joshi.  
>   
> ---------- Original Message ----------  
> From: Jsr Prasad \<[jsrap...@gmail.com]()\>  
> To: भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत् \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
> Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} About History of Science and/or > Technology  
> > 
> > 
> > Date: Fri, 13 May 2016 16:25:42 +0530  
>   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Dear Prof. N.R. Joshi ji,  
>   
> > 
> > Could you please share your paper offline, if it can not be shared in > the group, for some reasons.  
>   
> > 
> > Regards, >
> 
> > Prasad  
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > On Fri, May 13, 2016 at 3:01 AM, N.R.Joshi \<[gira...@juno.com]()\> > wrote:  
> > > 
> > > > May 12, 2016 > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Prof N. Paturi, RNI and other scholars interested in the ancient > > Indian technology-- > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > I have published the paper on the "Tough Steel of Ancient India". > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > British appointed scientist Faraday (electromagnetic induction > > famous) around 1826 AD to find out the secret of the Indian steel > > (Pulaad). > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > He could notfind it. The Russian scientist found out in 1850. > > Persian emperor was showing to his mother swords imported from India > > in 526 BC. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > I saw these swords in Houston during the ASM seminar given by two > > engineers from California. The champion of Islam Saladin (Kurdidh) > > had sword from India. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > I feel bad that no body told these things to me when I was studying > > in India. It is ok. N.R.Joshi > > > > 
> > 
> >   
>   
> --  
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Dr. J.S.R. Anjaneya Prasad,  
> Associate Professor & Head,  
> Dept. of Sanskrit Studies,  
> School of Humanities,  
> University of Hyderabad,  
> Prof. C.R. Rao Road, Hyderabad - 500 046  
> Tel: [+91-40-2313 3803](tel:+91%2040%202313%203803) >
> 
> > 
> >   
> *।। पुरुषोऽयं लोकसम्मितः ।।* >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > --  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>. >
>   
>   
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
> [**Living Tips**  
> $3 Teeth Whitening Has Dentists Furious  
> ](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/573a3480a2bf834802204st03vuc)<http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/573a3480a2bf834802204st03vuc> >
> 
> > --  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>. >
> 

  
  
  
--  

Dr. J.S.R. Anjaneya Prasad,  
Associate Professor & Head,  
Dept. of Sanskrit Studies,  
School of Humanities,  
University of Hyderabad,  
Prof. C.R. Rao Road, Hyderabad - 500 046  
Tel: [+91-40-2313 3803](tel:+91%2040%202313%203803)

  
*।। पुरुषोऽयं लोकसम्मितः ।।*



--  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**Affordable Wireless Plans**  
Set up is easy. Get online in minutes.  
Starting at only $9.95 per month!  
](http://www.netzero.net?refcd=nzmem0216)[www.netzero.net](http://www.netzero.net?refcd=nzmem0216)

