+++
title = "001 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-12-05, 16:43:05 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/ilNfZiyH2hY)]]



---------- Forwarded message ----------  
From: **S. Kalyanaraman** \<[kaly...@gmail.com]()\>  
Date: Sun, Dec 5, 2010 at 4:34 PM  
Subject: Re: Hindus laud British Museum for extensive Hindu collection  
To: Rajiv Malhotra \<[rajivmal...@gmail.com]()\>  
  
  
Good point, Rajiv ji. We are still waiting for the Sarasvati Pratima of Bhoja Raja stolen from Dhar in MP. They have an empty niche there where an eternal lamp burns awaiting the reinstallation of Sarasvati in Bhojashala. You should write up a counter to Rajan Zed and say how these pieces will get auctioned after their value for art-collectors increases by such world circuits of our sacred murti-s.

  

regards,

  

kalyan

  
  
  

On Sun, Dec 5, 2010 at 4:24 PM, Rajiv Malhotra \<[rajivmal...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> Until a few years ago, the Hindus in UK were protesting that > thecolonial loot is being mis-classified as "museum collection," when > infact it ought to be returned to the places from where it was > looted.Then the clever Brits started hiring Indians to curate this > loot, and  
> display it with respect in order to win them over, and thereby > keepthe loot. Over time, history gets forgotten and people get swayed > bythe aesthetics - upmarket wine and cheese parties at the house > oflords and other prestigious places with our own desi bhais as > thenewly appointed "lords" and so forth. These new kinds of > bhadralok("white Indians") then do the dirty work, which includes > getting theheat off the back of the Brit authorities who have no > intention toreturn this loot. As this article below shows, this > strategy has  
> worked. Now Hindus "laud" that the Brit museums are holding > preciousartifacts of India without being bothered that these were > were lootedin colonial times.  
>   
> In the 1990s, at a Sotheby's auction in New York, I saw a 10th > centuryVishnu status about 4 feet tall in impeccable condition, made > of blackmarble. The description in their catalog was that it came > from Orissain a temple. It was being sold by a Brit family whose > grandfather had  
> brought it from India after his "service" in India. I was so moved > and  
> bothered by this "sale" of India, that I decided to buy it so it  
> returns to Indian hands, which I managed to do. Till this day I have  
> tears when I see the beauty of this murti - it even has signs that  
> people worshipped it at one time. I also bought a 2nd century > Gandhar  
> Buddha (now the place is called Afghanistan), and both these serve > to  
> remind me of the immense mental colonization that has taken place as  
> things get reclassified over time.  
>   
> Starting out as plunder, the object goes thru multiple > intermediaries,  
> until it reaches some rick person in England, and becomes part of > the  
> elite "private collections". Generations later, at some point his  
> family cashes out by selling it via Christies/Sotheby's (both of > which  
> started as middlemen in colonial times selling off Indian loot to > rich  
> Europeans). Some of the best pieces end up in western museums, where  
> today's generation of ignorant Indians feel "honored" that the west  
> has put it on display. I guess the old generation of UK Indians who  
> were fighting to get back the kohinoor and other artifacts must have  
> vanished.  
>   
> Welcome to India's globalization! We have arrived!



