+++
title = "000 Usha Sanka"

+++
[[Usha Sanka	2020-04-12, 17:31:55 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/y0CzQ2-OInw)]]



Hariom.

नमस्ते to all the parishad scholars.

Happy to write after long time regarding some interesting work.

I would like to share an experience and seek help.

I was teaching some students some shlokas and one of them suddenly asked - "How many shloka singing styles are there?"

I thought for a little while, and said- Many! Some belong to North India, some South, some to Maharashtra, some traditional, some created by films and singers. Then the organizer of those lesson-sessions requested me to prepare somethingin detail to share with the students.

Then with the help of youtube, and other sources, I prepared this PPT (attached with next mail for limitation of MBs). Right now just for Shloka meter- that is popular Anushtup, not any other vrtta.. (I tried to take only one shloka and sing, but it was difficult; hence samples are a little varying.) And one more limitation is that I belong to South India, so lot of North is missed! And just now it struck- are there any NRI tunes/videshi tunes?

  

Thanks to the questioner! His question opened doors into new area of thinking for me. I realized while working on this, that I am totally unaware of tunes which are Bengali, Oriya, Gujarati, Kashmiri, Himachal Pradesh etc. and many more sources might be there. I also wrote a small write-up with my limited knowledge- which I just copy pasted below. Much can be added tomake it complete. Eg. how to people get to some tune? How do theyoriginate? Actually get propagated?

One thing I wanted to keep away for classical music.. excludethe Ragas. I just wanted tunes that mark something, and flew into the people at large.. not like someone sang somewhere and it remained there.

  

Now the helpthat I seek from this learned parishad is- please provide me audio samples from missing places. (I mean that not included in the audios in the PPT.) Let me have any more information upon this subject, and please let me know if such an endeavour has been made before by anyone- please provide the links and names and if possible, the work also. Further light on classification could also help. Any aspect of this area would be helpful in increasing my knowledge.

  

This is purely out of interest.. nothing academic. :)

  

Thanking you in advance-

--शिवमस्तु

--------------------------------------------------------------

*Shlokas- (Write-Up)  
  
Shlokas are the most popular texts that are meant to learn, memorize, recite, chant and teach. They are eight-worded, four-lined, Samskrt metered-poetry that have been passed on from generations from above.* 
   


*Music was added to it- to make it interesting, and avoid the dryness in reciting plain way. Some tunes are just traditionally sung by elders and picked up the next generation. Some are developed by individual people by their interest. Some are made for music sake for worshipping the divine and sometimes for commercial purposes.  
      In the process of getting passed on to the next generation, some tunes got fixed to some particular places. On hearing the tune of the shlokas one can say – to which area the chanter belongs to.  
      Tunes are sometimes generated by some popular film makers and they get to the people so much that we start to believe that this must be traditional tune. Some musicians also introduce some good tunes for shlokas.  
      Tunes can be divided into – 1. Traditional tunes 2. Tunes developed by individuals. Then one more classification is like- 1. For recitation 2. For chanting. Most of the times the classical music element involved in shlokas, long drawn musical notes, is only for beautification and mostly avoided by general people.*

  

  

--  

****"-यद्गत्वा न निवर्तन्ते तद्धाम परमं मम"****  

