+++
title = "003 Dr.BVK Sastry"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry	2011-01-30, 19:13:02 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/lHxvI938PYo)]]



Namaste  
  
While admiring the 'fancy debates and conclusions in relation to Veda -  
(accommodated ?) Science theories and Sanskritists making compromise  
situations -statements on what could have been the 'Science in Vedas',  
Please permit me to submit my views. (And in making these statements  
below, I do have a clarity of what the modern material sciences,  
medical sciences and meditation et al related studies have gone on.  
And I have made personal interactions with top notch living working  
scientists in several of these fields). I only wish the presentation  
made by Prof. Srinivasa Korada and Sri Veda Kavi had greater time for  
deliberation in the Udupi conference sessions.  
  
1. Anu-ParamAnu - Particle Physics : I fully agree to the point that  
ancient sages did not have an electron microscope or a particle  
chamber to experiment and give a nomenclature to the 'electron /atom  
et al. Then what were they talking about ? Were they talking about  
'measurable paricle of dimensional order of less than a nano  
measure' ? Was it their intention or aim or limit ?  
  
To understand what they were talking about, the researchers have to  
raise from their 'kindergarten level of dictionary translations /  
inherited errors of literal translations / fancy association of ideas  
made in the last several decades to prove that 'all modern science and  
sociology exists in vedas'. (- do we trace back this trend to Arya  
Samaj model or Bhagavan Das or some one else ? ; Does not matter;  
There are many who want to live and feel comfortable in the shadow of  
this 'idea'.  
  
And having all the gadgetry to break the 'atom' (- Anu /ParamAnu ??)  
and look in to the fall outs of these, are modern scientists focussed  
on explaining the focus of veda - relation between consciousness  
Matter and causation theories ? Modern Science theorists accept the  
given nature and study the subtle level working and others find ways  
to use it for human welfare / destruction. The connection between the  
concepts of atom- electron-charge-electricity are common accpeted  
norms in scientific debate. If one were to carry these debates in the  
current fashion, is there a link in Vedic traidtions about Anu-  
paramanu- Vidyut - Shakti - Guna Karma et al ? Did sages go for this  
model of 'Prakruti -Purusha -Brahma Jijnaasaa'?  
  
In summary what I submit is the following. Just as Scientists have a  
terminology / convention for study of each discipline of science,  
Vedic traditions also have their technical vocabulary and convnetions.  
There is no need or compulsion to equate /claim /study both on the  
same platform to satisfy / puncture a bloated ego about a great  
tradition. The most sensible thing would be to understand the working  
paradigm of each disciline and see how it helps. IF the ideas have  
some common locus, be it so.  
  
Just to put a teaser here, the issue of 'Horse' in relation to Vedic  
studies is a sensitive issue. In Purusha Sukta 10-90 , highly  
respected in tradition, and interpreted in fanciful ways by many  
modern schoalrs and indologists; the line as below: 'tasmaat yajnaat  
sarva hutah , Richah Saamaani jajnire.. ... yajustasmaad ajaayata ..  
tasmaat ashvaa ajaayanata ..'. The traditional commentators  
provide a spiritual cosmology and interpret the vedic text,  
explaining the co-locus of creation of the Vedic text, the time-space-  
animals- bipeds -humans- et al. Coming to modern theorists -  
scientists and socialists - can they examine this model of a 'Single  
Source' stated as 'Purusha /Yajna ' to be the origination point of  
the Vedas and also the horses ? ( and later on cows / biped et al) ?  
Which part of the creation theory explains this paradigm in modern  
schools ? Just becasue modern schools theories do not find resonance  
on the vedic paradigm, is it the best way to draw a conclusion and  
say 'Vedas are allegorical' - fancy blabbering'.  
  
Now if we get back to the core tradition, which was the key issue  
brought out by Prof.Korada and Veda kavi, the way in which current  
understanding of veda is given seems to become a narrow twig of a  
bigger methodolgy. (The concept of multilayer meaning / pancha kalpa -  
sapta kalpa; vedanga system; ; Layers of consciousness; Non-  
applicability of Vaikhari level grammar to para level document et al).  
Linguists have not satisfactorily explained the 'Human language  
model / much less about the complex grammar structures in Samskrutham  
surviving till date. The DNA theories related to language memory is  
yet to find its foot hold . African origin of human kind /Indian  
people is one more fancy exploration like this. There is no  
concurrence on the topic of 'measurement /quantization / units /  
terminolgy' et al. And with all these limitations, high flying  
conclusions are passed on.  
  
If there be several inspirational understandings from one source text,  
it can be so stated. If sage Bhrugu is to be treated as a 'DNA' with a  
certain meausre / or as a 'cosmic unit of matter' , let the schoalrs  
reason it out in its fulness. The 'opinion in relation to a vedic  
document' needs to be held distinctly separate from the 'inherited  
meaning /practice / tradition / application' and 'What it is supposed  
to be really per rule book'.  
  
I hope that this helps us in appreciating the debate point key line -  
'anantaartha vai vedaah' - as stated by Swamy ji - and argued out by  
traidtional schoalrs in a specific frame of philosophical school- Veda  
has multiple meaning /more than one level-point of view to explain out  
the Nature.  
  
Regards  
  
BVK Sastry  

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
On Jan 30, 5:08am, Ganesh R \<[avadhanigan...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  
\> I think this stand of Dr. Rajaram is very sensible and over-enthusiasts  
\> should note this.  
\>  
\> regards  
\>  
\> ganesh  
\>  

\> 2011/1/30 navaratna rajaramnavaratna \<[rajaramnavara...@gmail.com]()\>  

\>  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\> \>   Most of it is speculation and wishful thinking. At a metaphysical level  

\> \> Vedantic thinkers Shankara and Madhva (in the \*Brahma-sutra Bhashya \*and \*  
\> \> Tattva-viveka\*) had addressed problems in reality that have come up  

\> \> following quantum physics. But one has to be careful and not make excessive  
\> \> claims.  
\>  
\> \>   Any similarities need to be explored in the metaphysics and not in  
\> \> details like particle physics. I am working on a book on the topic.  
\>  
\> \> N.S. Rajaram  
\>  

\> \> 2011/1/29 [girav...@juno.com]() \<[girav...@juno.com]()\>  

\>  
\> \> Jan 29, 2011  
\>  
\> \>\> Respected Scholars, Namaskar!  
\>  
\> \>\> Vedic Particle Physics.  
\>  
\> \>\> In the recent three day (Jan21 to 23) conference( in Udupi-I think) Dr.  
\> \>\> Khem Chand Sharma from Delhi presented paper on "Vedic Particle Physics" .  
\> \>\> Some members of this list attended the conference. Could any body throw  
\> \>\> light on that presentation?  
\>  
\> \>\> There was another paper-Vedic Science viz-a-viz Modern Science by Dr.  
\> \>\> Chandra Prakash Trivedi, Indore. How was it? Any information?  
\>  
\> \>\> Because of internet availability, at present there are many websites of  
\> \>\> people from India and people of Indian origin from foreign countries. Many  
\> \>\> of them are writing on Physical Sciences in Vedas-even Nuclear Physics. I  
\> \>\> would like to study how ancient Indians coined such words in Particle  
\> \>\> Physics and Nuclear Physics. Any help is appreciated. Thanks. N.R.Joshi.  
\>  
\> \>\> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  

\> \>\> \*Home Refinance 3.8% FIXED\*  

\> \>\> No Hidden Fees, Easy Approvals & Better Terms-Free Quotes-3.9% APR!  

\> \>\> \<<http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/4d446640c499595caf9st05vuc>\>  
\> \>\> [Mortgage.LendGo.com](http://Mortgage.LendGo.com)\<<http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/4d446640c499595caf9st05vuc>\>  

\>  
\> \>\> --  
\> \>\> अथ चेत्त्वमिमं धर्म्यं संग्रामं न करिष्यसि।  
\> \>\> ततः स्वधर्मं कीर्तिं च हित्वा पापमवाप्स्यसि।।  
\> \>\> तस्मादुत्तिष्ठ कौन्तेय युद्धाय कृतनिश्चयः।  
\> \>\> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
\>  
\> \> --  
\> \> अथ चेत्त्वमिमं धर्म्यं संग्रामं न करिष्यसि।  
\> \> ततः स्वधर्मं कीर्तिं च हित्वा पापमवाप्स्यसि।।  
\> \> तस्मादुत्तिष्ठ कौन्तेय युद्धाय कृतनिश्चयः।  

\> \> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)- Hide quoted text -  
\>  
\> - Show quoted text -

