+++
title = "000 Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma"

+++
[[Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma	2010-09-15, 20:19:41 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/djXGm6jf8h8)]]



Respected Members,  
Instead of commenting on the contents the forwarded message was posted  
to the Group just to make it possible to draw critical comments.  
  
\>It is true that there could be a better form of performing *visarajana*.  
Perhaps it is worth doing something about.  
  
Very true and practical suggestion. However, I would like to share  
a few thoughts related to post puja procedure of how to do visarjana  
with a parallel analogy.  
  
The dead body is cremated in Kravyaada Agni to initiate the process of back to  
the Elements. No part of the dead body is left visible. Even the name given to the  
person is 'deleted' and the emotional relationship is deactivated!  
  
Similarly, the Mandala spread on the ground for any Puja to invoke a given Devata  
is dismantled and the powders used for the same are swept and dissolved in running  
waters.  
  
So too,the Haridra Ganapati and raw Mrttika Ganapati will be easily dissolved in the tank  
or larger ponds without any problem. Only the cast idols with plaster of Paris, synthetic  
materials and paints do create problems.  
  
If one can recognize Ganapati in the mutilated immersed used idols, as seen in the pictures,  
it is indeed a sin to cause such a plight of recognition. They should be totally destroyed/dissolved.  
  
Pranaams.  
  
  
  
  

On Wed, Sep 15, 2010 at 7:17 AM, P R Mukund - NanoArk \<[prmu...@nanoarkcorp.com]()\> wrote:  

> I too find this e-mail thread very offensive. I hope that no real > "Hindu" worships a material object as Bhagavanta, or a Devate.  
> We invoke these forces in material objects. In the case of Shri > Ganesha idol, once *visarjana* is done, The idol is mere matter.  
> It is true that there could be a better form of performing > *visarajana*. Perhaps it is worth doing something about.  
> But, the message is very misleading and inaccurate.  
> Just my humble opinion. Could not resist the temptation to share it.  
> Mukund >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >   
>   
> > 
> > On Tue, Sep 14, 2010 at 9:57 PM, Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma > \<[d.ramak...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  
> > > **Dear All,  
> > **Could not resist to forward!  
> >   
> > > > 
> > > > ---------- Forwarded message ----------  
> > From: **Jsra Prasad** \<[jsrap...@gmail.com]()\>  
> > Date: Tue, Sep 14, 2010 at 11:51 AM  
> > Subject: Fwd: Think about this ....!! - -> Important  
> > To: "Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma" \<[d.ramak...@gmail.com]()\>, > > [jvpra...@gmail.com](), chandra sekhar \<[jcsp...@gmail.com]()\>, > > Amruta Ratna Kumari \<[amr2...@yahoo.co.in]()\>  
> >   
> >   
> > Could not resist to forward you this mail on Ganesha.  
> >   
> > Regards,  
> >   
> > > > 
> > > > ---------- Forwarded message ----------  
> > From: **dharma sansthapana** \<[dharma...@gmail.com]()\>  
> > Date: Tue, Sep 14, 2010 at 8:34 PM  
> > Subject: Think about this ....!! - -> Important  
> > To:  
> >   
> >   
> > > > 
> > > >   
> >   
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > >   
> >   
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > [TABLE] > > > >   
> > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > >   
> >   
> >   
> > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > >   
> >   
> >   
> > --  
> > Regards  
> >   
> >   
> >   
> > > > 
> > > >   
> > > > 
> > > >   
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > >   
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > >   
> > > > 
> > > >   
> >   
> >   
> > --  
> > Jsra Prasad, Asst. Professor,  
> > Dept. of Sanskrit Studies  
> > University of Hyderabad,  
> > Gachibowli, Hyderabad - 500 046  
> > Tel: 040-2313 3803  
> >   
> > > > 
> > > >   
> >   
> >   
> > --  
> > Aangirasa/Dr.S.Ramakrishna Sharma. > > M.A.,Ph.D.(Eng.Lit.),Ph.D.(Sanskrit.).  
> > > > --  
> > You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google  
> > Groups "Foundation for Indian Scientific Heritage" group.  
> > To post to this group, send email to  
> > [foundation-for-india...@googlegroups.com]()  
> > To unsubscribe from this group, send email to  
> > [foundation-for-indian-scie...@googlegroups.com]()  
> > For more options, visit this group at  
> > <http://groups.google.co.in/group/foundation-for-indian-scientific-heritage?hl=en?hl=en-GB>  
> > HERITAGE AWARENESS MAKES AN ENLIGHTENED CITIZEN. >
> 
> >   
>   
>   
> > 
> > 
> > --  
> P.R. Mukund, Ph.D.  
> President & CEO  
> NanoArk Corporation  
> 6605 Pittsford-Palmyra Road, Suite E-5  
> Fairport, NY 14450  
> Phone: [(585) 223-4334, ext. 18](tel:(585)%20223-4334)  
> e-mail: [prmu...@nanoarkcorp.com]()  
> URL: [www.nanoarkcorp.com](http://www.nanoarkcorp.com) >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > --  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google  
> Groups "Foundation for Indian Scientific Heritage" group.  
> To post to this group, send email to  
> [foundation-for-india...@googlegroups.com]()  
> To unsubscribe from this group, send email to  
> [foundation-for-indian-scie...@googlegroups.com]()  
> For more options, visit this group at  
> <http://groups.google.co.in/group/foundation-for-indian-scientific-heritage?hl=en?hl=en-GB>  
> HERITAGE AWARENESS MAKES AN ENLIGHTENED CITIZEN. >
> 
> > 

  
  
  
--  
Aangirasa/Dr.S.Ramakrishna Sharma. M.A.,Ph.D.(Eng.Lit.),Ph.D.(Sanskrit.).  

