+++
title = "000 rniyengar"

+++
[[rniyengar	2010-09-25, 10:47:43 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/1upJUorV_j8)]]



Dear Members,  
I read with interest the discussion on the word Asura in another post.  
I am presenting here some of my views on this issue. In my humble  
opinion proper understanding of the words "deva and asura" in the  
Vedic texts is important for appreciating the origins of astronomy in  
our country.  
  
Who are Asuras or what is the meaning of this word in RV is an  
interesting question for a variety of reasons. W.E.Hale has a book on  
the topic which is his Ph.D thesis from Harvard.  
The word and its derivatives occur more than eighty times in RV. My  
interest was to understand Asura in relation to Deva in RV. The two  
are like the two faces of the same coin. My arguments in brief are as  
follows:  
In RV the word Sura is not used. Hence the equation deva=sura is a  
later mathematical type development since deva and asura were  
opponents in the earliest layers of RV. Deva is derived from div to  
shine, these were the celestial luminaries mainly the nakshatras (deva  
grihaavai nakshatraaNi Tai.Br. ). Quite intriguingly in many places  
Shining objects are also qualified as Asura. For example in 3.3.4;  
4.2.5 Agni is called asura. As is well known VaruNa is also asura. In  
some places Indra is asura. Hence asura was not a pejorative word till  
something special happened. The clue is with Maruts who are also  
asurah. SayaNa in most of the places accepts the derivation of the  
word from asu kshepaNe = to throw, to put, to keep. The action of the  
Maruts was to throw stones at earth. They in fact killed Prajapati’s  
creation once. Please see:  
  
Tai. Br. (1.6.2.2 -3-4) : Samvatsaro vai prajāpatih\|  
samvatsarenaivāsmai prajāh prājanayat\| tāh. Prajā jātā maruto’ghnan  
asmānapi na prāyuksateti\| sa etam prajāpatirmārutam  
saptakapālamapaśyat\| \| Yāh pūrvāh prajāh asrksī\| marutastā  
avadhisuh  
  
Tai. Br. (1.3.4.4) : maruto yajnamajighānsan prajāpateh  
\|  
  
People had to worship Maruts to protect themselves. These were  
meteorites and also connected with dhumaketu the celestial agni, the  
comet. I have presented details in my paper  
  
<http://www.scribd.com/doc/17520618/Comets-and-meteoritic-showers-in-the-Rigveda-and-their-importanceIJHSMarch2010>  
  
This work was first presented as “deciphering the vedic sky” at the  
archaeoastronomy brain storming meeting of TIFR. The participants;  
both scientists and Vedicists had some reservation about maruts being  
meteorites but had no difficulty in agreeing to the celestial fire  
dhumaketu, agni with tail (vaaravantam) to be a comet. The slides  
used by me are available at  
  
<http://www.scribd.com/doc/17322591/Deciphering-the-Vedic-Sky>  
  
In RV the eclipse shadow Svarbhaanu is called Aasura (one belonging to  
asura). This is so because the original Visvarupa Tvaashtra could once  
cover up Sun. To cut a long story short the original asuras were  
throwers of stones towards earth sometimes falling on the houses/  
ashrams/vedis/lakes. Even some devas such as VaruNa (star in Draco or  
Shishumaara) could do this and hence was an Asura. The word Rahu  
appears first in the Atharvana veda. My suspicion is this should be  
word connected with the Rigvedic maruts who are in one place called  
Va-raahu (RV1.88.5).  
  
The worship of asura (Rahu and Ketu) has continued to this day in the  
navagrahapuja.  
Only these two original Asuras could get their place among the  
immortals; the later Suraas!  
  
I like to be corrected wherever I am wrong  
  
regards  
  
RN Iyengar

