+++
title = "019 VKG"

+++
[[VKG	2010-09-29, 06:37:00 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/1upJUorV_j8)]]



Pranaam!

I have been following the discussion about the term ASURA.

These are some of my observations:

1\. सोः सुरानसृजत - is quoted by Dr. Rani Sastry. That is said to be  
Yajurveda. I would like to know the instance. To the best of our  
knowledge, no such instance is found.

2\. Dr. Yadu quotes - Nivrutti. Actually it should have been Nirruti.  
(Probably a type). This is a typical deity, referred with Feminine  
Gender. (Yatte Devee Nirrutir, Deveemaham Nirrutim Vandamaanah).  
Skaanda Puraana describes, he was born in the community of hunters and  
he got elevated to the position of Dikpaalaka due to his sacrifice and  
austerity.

3\. The term is Sura is rarely used in Veda in the context of Deity.  
Deva - asuraa sSamyattaa Aasan, is the normal parlance to describe  
Deities and Demons. Sura (Pum- linga, Akaaraanta) is not normally  
found in Yajurveda. (Please provide reference, if found)

4\. Asura is the contextual term. This is not absolute. At instances  
such as , Swasti No Mimeetaam ... Poosha Asuro Dadaatu Nah; it shall  
be attributed to a deity. At instances such as Deva-Asuraah - it  
should be demon or progeny of Diti etc.

5\. Similarly, the term though used in the context of a Deity, it is  
used in many contexts. Adhi - Daivam refers to some Celestial Body/  
Natural Forces; Daivam - is Fortune/ Fate/ Destiny; Deva - is also a  
deity.

Similarly, many words such as Soma (Soma Rasa, Lataa, Moon, Shiva  
etc.) are contextual.

Regards  
Vamshi

Yougika Vyutpatti (etymology) can be derived, as needed to the  
context. If nothing works out, Roodhi is always there as bail out.

  
On Sep 28, 7:30am, "Dr. Yadu Moharir" \<[ymoha...@yahoo.com]()\> wrote:  
\> Respected scholars,  
\>  
\> There is a good review Monograph entitled, R^igvedic Soma by Dr, N.R. Waradpande, Published in 1995 by Sanskrit Bhasha Pracharini Sabha, Nagpur. That contains lot of information regarding Botany and various Sanskrit interpretations of term Soma.  
\>  
\> Reading this in original may be helpful  
\>  
\> Regards,  
\>  
\> Yadu  
\>  

\> --- On Mon, 9/27/10, S. Kalyanaraman \<[kalya...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  
\>  
\> From: S. Kalyanaraman \<[kalya...@gmail.com]()\>  

\> Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Asura in the Rigveda  
\> To: [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
\> Date: Monday, September 27, 2010, 7:20 PM  
\>  
\> धन्योस्मिधन्यवादःकल्याणरामन  
\>  
\> I can cite one instance. Chandogya Upanishad interprets Soma, the core subject of the Rigveda in the following metaphors:  
\> एषसोमो राजा  
\> तददेवानांअन्नंतम देवाभक्क्ष्यंन्तिkalyanaraman  

\> 2010/9/27 hn bhat \<[hnbha...@gmail.com]()\>



