+++
title = "000 Dr.Sampadananda Mishra"

+++
[[Dr.Sampadananda Mishra	2016-03-01, 12:20:52 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/dY2RdmJRPfQ)]]



Dear Friends,  
Sanskrit, indeed, is a language of beauty and perfection. And I strongly feel that all that we do for Sanskrit must express that beauty and perfection. Most of the times we see books, journals, articles, creative writings, research papers etc. which lack beauty and perfection. We need to think about it and make necessary efforts to bring quality, beauty and perfection in all that we do for the propagation and preservation of this wonderful language and the whole tradition therein. We need to help researchers and authors in refining their presentations. We find a great lack of trained and authentic proof-readers, copy-editors, reviewers, content creators in Sanskrit. With regard to this, I would request, especially, all those who hold responsible positions in the field of Sanskrit to think of developing a specific course which can take care of creating authentic copy-editors, proof-readers, reviewers and content creators in Sanskrit. And I am sure it will have a great market value. At the same time these professionals will be of great help in bringing quality to the Sanskrit writings. We can initially hold some discussion about it and have a few workshop before the final module is designed. I request all those who are serious about it to come together to form a group.  
  
Looking forward to your positive response  
Sampadananda Mishra, Pondicherry  

