+++
title = "000 Dr.Sampadananda"

+++
[[Dr.Sampadananda	2012-05-19, 09:33:00 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/pxHRpbZ1gck)]]



Dear All,  
Sri Aurobindo Foundation for Indian Culture (SAFIC) which is a unit of  
Sri Aurobindo Society, Puducherry has prepared three multimedia CD-  
Roms for which the details have been given below...all those who are  
willing to procure these CDs please contact: Manager, Splendour, 16,  
Goubert Avenue, Puducherry - 605001; Email: [sple...@aurosociety.org]()  
  
1. Srimad Bhagavad Gita  
  
The Gita is one of the profoundest books of Indian spirituality. It is  
special in its structure of thought and in its language. It does not  
seek to confine itself to any one school or religious view but in  
fact, “there is a wide, undulating, encircling movement of ideas which  
is the manifestation of a vast synthetic mind and a rich synthetic  
experience… It does not cleave asunder, but reconciles and unifies.”  
  
Studying, understanding or simply listening to the Gita forms a part  
of life for millions of people not just in India but world over. Many  
commentaries have been written, giving diverse interpretations of the  
Gita. In Sri Aurobindo’s phenomenal work titled ‘Essays on the Gita’,  
we enter into the spirit of the Gita and look at the truth with a deep  
insight.  
  
The multimedia CD contains a veriety of material, presented in a  
manner which is easily accessible: the entire 700 verses of the Gita  
in Devanagari with a Roman transliteration, followed by an English  
translation, (ANVAYA the prose order of the Sanskrit words) and word  
by word meaning. Each verse has been traditionally chanted to  
illustrate the sound and beauty of the Sanskrit language. In addition,  
miscellaneous writings and extensively interlinked indexes give much  
to the scholar to work with. These include a Quarter-verse Index, a  
Subject Index, and a Word Index which lists all the words in the Gita  
alphabetically along with their grammatical analysis. Hundreds of  
visuals have been used to give each page its own mood and atmosphere,  
at times bordering on the sublime. Last but certain not the least, it  
contains the entire text of Sri Aurobindo’s ‘Essays on the Gita’.  
A CD meant not just for spiritual seekers, philosophers, researchers,  
but for people of all age groups, nations, beliefs, who want to know  
what the Gita has to say and wish to understand its true spiritual  
essence.  
  
This CD-Rom is compatible only with the Windows.  
Product Code: 8906049510000  
Price: \`995/-  
  
2. Chandovallari – Experiencing Sanskrit Prosody  
  
Chandovallari is an introduction to the Chandas or main metres in  
Sanskrit. The examples and the indexes enable interested readers to  
become familiar with the commonly used metres and identify them.  
  
Apart from the introduction there are three main sections:  
  
Section one (Understanding Chandas) explains the place of chandas in  
Indian literature, the history of chandas and chandashastras(the main  
texts on metres), the classification of chandas and the rules  
governing them.  
  
Section two (Experiencing Chandas) deals with nineteen major and well-  
known metres along with explanations and examples collected from  
various sources. Each shloka is followed by an English translation.  
The original Sanskrit texts are given both in Devanagari and in Roman  
transliteration.  
  
Section three (Indexes) has several indexes to facilitate the readers  
to become familiar with the Sanskrit metres and understand them  
easily.  
  
The CD contains audio renderings of the examples of all the nineteen  
major metres. It is enriched by background music and visuals.  
  
For each metre there are six examples which have been divided into  
three sets, each containing two verses. Generally the first two (1&2)  
verses of each metre illustrate the traditional way of reciting or  
singing the verses. The second two (3&4) are set to a tune based on a  
particular raga and a tala or rhythmic beat. The third two (5&6) are  
based on a raga but the tala is absent to facilitate a free singing of  
the verses. The rendering in all the cases is in harmony with the  
rules or principles of the metres.  
  
The contents of the CD-Rom are also available in a book form.  
  
This CD-Rom is both Windows and Mac compatible.  
Product Code: 8906049510017  
Price: \`495/-  
  
3. The Wonder that is Sanskrit  
  
“If I was asked what is the greatest treasure which India possesses  
and what is her finest heritage, I would answer unhesitatingly – it is  
the Sanskrit language and literature and all that it contains.”  
- Jawaharlal Nehru  
Sanskrit is one of the oldest languages of the world. The deeper one  
goes into it the more one is amazed by its beauty and perfection.  
Whichever aspect one explores, there seems to be no limit to its  
treasures and wonders. Its very name means “refined” or “sculpted to  
perfection”. It is through this language that India has been  
expressing herself abundantly and incessantly for centuries, and its  
future rests much on this most dynamic language. But in the recent  
past, we have been cut off from this voluminous body of the highest  
wisdom, knowledge and genius. This trend is only now beginning to  
change, and a resurgence of Sanskrit in all fields of life would also  
mean a revival of the true spirit of India and its soul-force. It is  
through Sanskrit that we will be able to connect ourselves with the  
puissance and the creative thrust which propelled our forefathers to  
create one of the greatest civilisations in the past.  
  
The Wonder that is Sanskrit contains two CDs: Devabhasha and  
Ashtavadhanam. They present the wonders of Sanskrit to even those who  
have had no previous contact with the language. Presented in an easy  
and fluid manner, here are interesting aspects of the Sanskrit  
language and highlights of the great creative genius of the Indian  
culture.  
  
In Devabhasha – the Language of the Gods, one sees Sanskrit in its  
manifold aspects:  
- the perfection of its grammar, the scientific and logical  
arrangement of its alphabet  
- interesting and astounding creations, the agility and  
flexibility of  
the language, and the extraordinary capacity of the human mind in  
creating unparalleled literary feats which leave us with a sense of  
sheer wonder  
- the varied fields in which its literature has made a  
contribution:  
poetry, mathematics, science, astronomy, astrology, logic, law,  
religion, politics, drama, history, geography, medicine, yoga etc.  
- the opulence, exuberance, subtlety, perfection and exquisite  
beauty  
of its poetry  
- how Sanskrit is a source of upliftment and enlightenment, a  
sacred  
medium for expressing the highest spiritual truths and experiences  
- how the Soul of India expressed itself through Sanskrit for  
centuries and more importantly the role that it will play in the  
future of India and the world  
  
In Ashtavadhanam – the Eight-fold Concentration, one participates in  
an unbelievable art form, so rare that few have seen it. Avadhana has  
been formulated as a scholarly play or mental feat where both creative  
and retentive faculties of mind are brought into play. One witnesses  
here:  
- heightened power of concentration and the extraordinary  
potential of  
the human mind  
- spontaneous creativity, the power of imagination, poetic  
ability and  
quick thinking of the Avadhani  
- amazing flexibility of the Sanskrit language, and the value  
and  
beauty of Indian culture  
  
The Wonder that is Sanskrit is enriched with audio renditions of  
Sanskrit verses, background music, printable text, background visuals,  
selective video footage and other miscellaneous interactive facilities  
which are easy to access.  
  
This CD-Rom is compatible only with the Windows.  
Product Code: 8906049510024  
Price: \`745/-  
  
For ordering these products please contact:  
Splendour, Auroservice  
16, Goubert Avenue  
Puducherry – 605001  
Phone: [+91 413 222 4827](tel:+91%20413%20222%204827)  
Email: [sple...@aurosociety.org]()

