+++
title = "000 Manoj Sastri"

+++
[[Manoj Sastri	2017-08-08, 10:40:14 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/b9Z-Auxvv10)]]



Dear sirs,  
  
I am new to the group, and am not so learned as you all are. For this  
reason I have joined the group. I have some questions raised from my  
reading some books and shastras. I am from a Vaisnava family following  
the line of Vallabhacarya. Recently I met a scholar who told me that  
in vallabha sampradaya women are given mantra diksa which is actually  
not allowed by shastras and asked me to support our practice with  
shastras. In pursuance to this I started looking the relavant sections  
in the sastras and have some queries to clarify the topic more.  
  
First question is regarding women's involvement in taking and giving  
mantras. It is well known that women cannot hear or recite the vedas  
and thus it concludes that they can neither receive mantras not give  
them -- rendering them unfit for diksa and for becoming guru. Yet we  
see in sruti itself that personalities like gargy were knowers of  
vedas and they may probably had some disciples also. But we do not see  
such instances in the traditions that we know -- like sankara line,  
madhva line, etc. and in the gotras of different brahmanas. Upanayana  
is not for females and according to manu, for females marriage is  
equal to upanayana.  
  
So first I would like to open here a discussion --  
  
"According to the principles mentioned in Vedas, Puranas, Itihasas,  
Pancaratras, and tradition, can women receive mantra diksa  
(independently of her husband)? Can she give mantra to others also and  
become guru herself?"  
  
\[Pancaratras are also involved as diksa are of two types vaidiki and  
tantriki. Thus I presuppose there will be some differences in rules,  
allowances, and eligibilities. While tantriki diksa may involve saiva  
and sakta tantras, I have not involved them here in discussion as in  
these lines not much contradiction is seen and because studying these  
lines is not my subject.\]  
  
Discussion should be limited only to the pramanas from the sources  
above mentioned.  
  
Discussion is not meant to decide what should be done at present  
situation in the society -- it is solely meant to know what was the  
rule according to these scriptures and what was practical application  
in the society of those different times following these scriptures.  
Thus comments based on modern society's analysis is neither intended  
nor appreciated here.  
  
The moderators may consider this as controvesial topic and I  
understand the situation and am okay if it is decided to discontinue  
the topic for discussion.  
  
Regards,  
Manoj Sastri  

