+++
title = "021 Manoj Sastri"

+++
[[Manoj Sastri	2017-09-09, 14:50:39 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/b9Z-Auxvv10)]]



Dear Damodar dasji sir,  
  
No one has given any comments till now on the translations sent by you.  
  
I myself tried to check them and get them checked by some scholars.  
Mostly they are okay, with no major mistakes.  
  
One word was found to be not properly translated. In sloka no.42  
  
na jātu mantra-dā nārī na śūdro nāntarodbhavaḥ \|  
nābhiśasto na patitaḥ kāma-kāmo ’py akāminaḥ \|\|42\|\|  
  
Here word abhiśastaḥ is translated a "one who is cursed" while Monier  
Williams give translation as "one who is accused."  
  
Scholars whom I contacted say that "one who has been accused" is not  
much a known category in dharma-sastras but "one who has been cursed"  
is a known category in sastras. It is well found in sastras that there  
are people passing through a particular curse but its not found that  
there are people who are passing from accusation (this is just a  
political category). The sanskirt commentary of Sarayu Prasad on this  
verse glosses this word -- mahāpātakayogavān which means one who has  
committed one of the five mahāpātaka sins. But this has no relation  
with the meaning in Monier Williams Dictionary.  
  
I seek help from scholars of this forum to properly set the  
translation of this word in the verse.  
  
But translation of this word is not such a big problem for the subject  
under question. Thus I think this can be conclusive evidence if  
Damodarji can establish the authority of Bharadvaja-samhita.  

  
Regards,  
Manoj\\<br />  
\<table style="border-top: 1px solid #D3D4DE;">  
\<tr>  
\<td style="width: 55px; padding-top: 13px;">\<a  
href="<https://www.avast.com/sig-email?utm_medium=email&utm_source=link&utm_campaign=sig-email&utm_content=webmail>"  
target="\_blank">\<img  
src="<https://ipmcdn.avast.com/images/icons/icon-envelope-tick-round-orange-animated-no-repeat-v1.gif>"  
alt="" width="46" height="29" style="width: 46px; height: 29px;"  
/>\</a>\</td>  
\<td style="width: 470px; padding-top: 12px; color: #41424e;  
font-size: 13px; font-family: Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;  
line-height: 18px;">Virus-free. \<a  
href="<https://www.avast.com/sig-email?utm_medium=email&utm_source=link&utm_campaign=sig-email&utm_content=webmail>"  
target="\_blank" style="color: #4453ea;">[www.avast.com](http://www.avast.com)\</a>  
\</td>  
\</tr>  
\</table>\<a href="#DAB4FAD8-2DD7-40BB-A1B8-4E2AA1F9FDF2" width="1"  
height="1">\</a>\  
  



