+++
title = "005 VKG"

+++
[[VKG	2010-08-07, 05:50:15 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/Lz9CCNwfmso)]]



Pranaam!

There are many concepts in contemporary Indian Religious Practices/  
Thoughts, whose basis shall be explored.

Ayyappa Puja, Nava Graha Puja are such examples.

As HMB pointed out, there is no dispute till the incidence of Shiva  
and Jaganmohini Meet. Next phase is silent in Puraanas mentioning  
Amruta Mathanam and Distribution.

Such confusion is a natural result of communion of Mythology with  
historical events.

We also come across such incidence of Meenakshi as the scion of Pandya  
Dynasty (in AD Era).

Aarya, Aaryaka, Goptaa, Saasta are also Generic Terms, which can be  
attributed to any form/ name of deity in masculine gender.

But the Yajurveda Mantra referred earlier (by me) is an excellent  
stanze implying the wisdom of the Sasta to passon to his subjects and  
it further implores that, they should live by the wisdom acquired.

Regards  
VKG

On Aug 6, 6:05pm, "Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma"



\> 2010/8/6 narayanan er \<[drernaraya...@yahoo.com]()\>

  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\> \> Respected Professor Bhatt Sir,  
\>  
\> \> Here I wanted to know more on this regard:  
\>  
\> \> 1. Who was शास्ता ?  
\>  
\> \> 2. Who was Ayyappa since when? In Brahmacari form or with a deity with a  
\> \> married concept ?  
\>  
\> \> 3. The Tantrasamuccaya of Narayana speaks about आर्यक and the Tantrins in  
\> \> Kerala worship शास्ता as आर्यक with the  
\> \> ध्यानश्लोक-"स्निग्धारालविसारिकुन्तल.......(see the Tantrasamuccaya) is for  
\> \> Ayyappa also where आर्यक is not a bachelor ?  
\>  
\> \> 4. Then the name/ qualifier गोप्ता for whom in the मूलमन्त्र -  
\> \> ओम् घ्रूं नमः पराय गोप्त्रे etc. ?  
\>  
\> \> Narayanan  
\>  

\> \> ------------------------------  
\> \> \*From:\* hn bhat \<[hnbha...@gmail.com]()\>  
\> \> \*To:\* [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
\> \> \*Sent:\* Fri, 6 August, 2010 11:56:35 AM  
\> \> \*Subject:\* Fwd: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Ayyappa - Sharanam Ayyappa -

  
\>  
\> \> I would like to know the Puraana Vaakya (Which Puraana, Which Sarga)  
\> \>\> mentions about the Avataara of Ayyappa.  
\> \>\> The Mantra recited in praise of Ayyappa by some Purohits, mentions the  
\> \>\> name Shaasta. (For that, they refer to the Ashwamedha Mantra> अयं  
\> \>\> शास्ताधिपतिर्वो अस्तु।)  
\> \>\> Many scholars say that, the Jaganmohini/ Mohini Form of Vishnu does not  
\> \>\> mention the birth of a child.  
\> \>\> More thoughts/ information from Puraana Pundits - are welcome.  
\>  
\> \> ===================  
\> \> Dear Sir,  
\>  
\> \> Thanks for raising the question. I had been haunted by this for long but  
\> \> could not find a solution. But this is based on the belief of people in  
\> \> heroic worship as we see in Tulunadu many daiva-s:  
\>  

\> \> \*Lord Ayyappa and Sabarimala\*



\> \> I found the statement \*that none of the known Purana-s lend support to  
\> \> this story.\*



