+++
title = "000 sr...@drquinoa.com"

+++
[[sr...@drquinoa.com	2020-12-20, 11:01:52 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/EqxRW6kmekE)]]



**Namaskaram,** ****



I am editing a book presenting 10 scientists whose work saved over 2 BILLION lives. Also included in the book are 160 Indian scientists, whose work may have potentially saved lives.



The government of India is giving this book to 1,00,000 students.



I want the students to know that **ancient RISHIS are also like the modern-day scientists who, with their intellect and sacrifices, gave us knowledge about what, when, and how to eat and live a healthy life. **



SO, PLEASE SUGGEST SLOKAS TO SUBSTANTIATE THIS AND INSPIRE THE STUDENTS TO APPRECIATE RIHSIS. I WANT TO INCLUDE 3 SLOKAS.



PLEASE send the sloaks and their translation to me directly to save the time of others, to – **[sr...@drquinoa.com]()**



Sincerely,

Srinivasa K. Rao, Ph.D.







**From:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\> **On Behalf Of** Narayan Prasad  
**Sent:** Saturday, December 19, 2020 8:43 AM  
**To:** भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत् \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
**Subject:** {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Looking for: Swami Nigamananda Paramhansa's Hindi ka maulik vyakaran



Dear Scholars,

  Namaste.

  From books on Hindi grammar, I come across reference to "स्वामी विवेकानंद परमहंसः हिन्दी का मौलिक व्याकरण" (for publication details, please see the attached scanned page).

  But I am unable to trace on the net any bookseller for this book, or any soft copy of it. Could anybody help?

  Regards

  Narayan Prasad



--  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To view this discussion on the web visit [https://groups.google.com/d/msgid/bvparishat/CAKmACTk5fSvpf6n_S0UyNE98CO7a8Ad4H2onAnSiWfLZFByr9A%40mail.gmail.com](https://groups.google.com/d/msgid/bvparishat/CAKmACTk5fSvpf6n_S0UyNE98CO7a8Ad4H2onAnSiWfLZFByr9A%40mail.gmail.com?utm_medium=email&utm_source=footer).

