+++
title = "000 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2014-07-12, 05:19:36 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/iA0Ugo3djsA)]]



July 11, 2014



Dear Prof Nagaraj Paturi,

Thanks for your reply to my posting on DipIkaa and VaakyapadIya.

I read your postings on BVP. N.R.Joshi

  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: Nagaraj Paturi \<[nagara...@gmail.com]()\>  
To: [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Views of Bhartrihari in DIpikaa and in VaakyapadIya  
Date: Tue, 8 Jul 2014 00:33:33 +0530  
  

"In the VP on the other hand he is free to give full scope to his own views".



- In spite of Bhartrhari making it very clear from 2-481 to 2-488, that VP does not contain his own views but is a



preservation of



nyāyabīja-s/nyāyaprasthānamārga-s/āgama-s/vartma-s of pāṇini-vyāḍi time carried from saṅgraha through mahābhāṣya



to vākyapadīyam ,



why do we have to call Bhartrihari's words as his own views?



Following Bhartrihari, the word sphōṭa darśana is being used asthe synonym of pāṇinīyadarśana or vaiyākaraṇa



darśana. It is being used asthe name given to the pāṇinīya (vaiyākaraṇa)vision of self-truthrelation, pāṇinīya



(vaiyākaraṇa)epistemology, pāṇinīya (vaiyākaraṇa) ontology, pāṇinīya (vaiyākaraṇa)metaphysics, the pāṇinīya



(vaiyākaraṇa)model of cognition in general, pāṇinīya (vaiyākaraṇa) model of speechcognition in particular, pāṇinīya



(vaiyākaraṇa)model ofcreativity in general, pāṇinīyan model of speech creativity in particular.



It is in this sense thatvedānta or any other darśana does pūrvapakṣa to sphōṭa darśana.



dhvanyālōka isan example of how this general philosophy can be applied to specific cases such as literary semantics,



dr̥śyakāvya aesthetics andśravyakāvya aesthetics, particularly rasa -aesthetics. 



The phonetic aspect ofsphōṭa is only a special case of sphōṭa.



ākr̥ti, vyakti, buddhistha śabda are part of this special case. While dealing with this special case, Bhartrihari's claim is



that he is not adding any new concept like buddhistha śabda, but is just giving words to some of Patanjali's



ideas as carried by him from sangrahakāra.



With regard to meaning also there is a parallel concept called sampratyayārthadistinguished from bāhyārtha discussed



by Bhartrihari. But all these are, according to him, pāṇinīya ideas, not hisown.



Sorry if I deviated from the focus of the thread.



Othermembers may bring it back to track.



सुधीविधेयः



नागराजः





















  
  

On Mon, Jul 7, 2014 at 10:27 PM, N.R.Joshi \<[gira...@juno.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> > July 7, 2014 >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Respected Scholars , Namaskar! >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > From the article by G .B. Palsule in the book Bhartrihari: Philosopher > and Grammarian; >
> 
> > 
> > Editor Saroja Bhate etc >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Mahabhashya of Patanjali (Mbh.). Mahabhashya DIpika (Dip) and > VakyapadIya (VP) and Bhartrihari (Bh) >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > In the Dip, Bh was commenting on the Mbh. Now the Mbh has in all > probability used the word Sphota only in a phonetic context. Further > only two views, Aakriti and Vyakti, are mentioned in this context in > the Mbh (Pratyahara Aahnika on Vaartikas 5-15 Vol I p 16-18). This may > be the reason why Bh gives prominence to these views in DIp. >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > In the VP on the other hand he is free to give full scope to his own > views. That is why he gives prominence to the buddhistha shabda there. >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > My question: There are many scholars of Mbh and Bh on this list. Could > you please explain to me Aakriti, Vyakti and Buddhistha shabda in the > context of Sphota as understood by Patanjali and Bhartrihari? Thanks. > N. R. Joshi. >
> 
> >   
>   
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
> [**The End of the "Made-In-China" Era**  
> The impossible (but real) technology that could make you impossibly > rich.  
> ](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/53bad1cee7afb51ce0227st03vuc)[fool.com](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/53bad1cee7afb51ce0227st03vuc) >
> 
> > --  
> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
> ---  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.  

  
  
  
--  

Prof.Nagaraj Paturi

Hyderabad-500044



--  
निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
---  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**The #1 Worst Carb Ever?**  
Click to Learn #1 Carb that Kills Your Blood Sugar (Don't Eat This!)  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/53c0083d8283d83d33f6st03vuc)[FixYourBloodSugar.com](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/53c0083d8283d83d33f6st03vuc)

