+++
title = "008 Damodara Dasa"

+++
[[Damodara Dasa	2021-09-25, 11:34:27 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/MMRwZjP7qIg)]]



Hare Krishna.  

  
\>\> The fact that the manuscript is not lent to anybody by the followers of Madhva,  
perhaps prevented us as well from having it, no reply even being given  
to our enquiries. It seems Nimbarka undertook the work because it was  
Madhva's immediate influence upon the people which he had to fight  

against for making his own campaign successful. (Quote from Bose)  
  
Without having the manuscript we can just guess about it, as the  
author of the above paragraph has done. However, Guess is no science.  
Basing Nimbarka's chronology just on this flimsy platform doesn't look  
to me a very sober proposal. Why not guess some other reasons about  
Madhva's followers not giving the manuscript?  
  
Anyway, guesses are guesses, and something substantial needs to be  
there to prove that Nimbarka is after Madhva.  
  
If Nimbarka was not after Madhva but before him then the above  
argument is automatically defeated because he did not need to defeat  
Madhva's philosophy by writing a book.  
  
What is the current situation of this manuscript? Do Madhvas still not  
agree to give the manuscript? As far as I am concerned, I adore Madhva  
followers who are well known for philosophical and sastric battles  
till date and it is very unlikely that they will not agree to give  
this manuscript fearing their defeat. Roma Bose published his comments  
in 1940. Since 1940 (80 years from now) Madhvas must have developed  
their refutation, if this manuscript would have been a danger to them.  
  
Besides this, do the followers Nimbarka accept that Nimbarka has any  
time written such a grantha, madhva-mukha-mardana? And if so then why  
they do not have a copy of it? And with the fact that a grantha with  
the same name is widely available in many manuscripts attributed to  
Appayya-diksita (who came after Madhva) clearly points out that it is  
more likely a mistake to attribute this grantha to Nimbarka in one of  
the manuscripts or that Nimbarka mentioned in this manuscript is  
someone after Appayya diksita and not the Nimbarka, the founder of  
Nimbarka Sampradaya.  

î—“

