+++
title = "009 R. Narayana iyengar"

+++
[[R. Narayana iyengar	2012-10-15, 12:53:46 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/u3NHRw7BO4Y)]]



I thank the scholars S/Shri Desikapriya, Sundareswaran, Ramanujan, Bhat, Aklujkar and Narayanan responding to my question and describingthe word निष्ट्या in detail.

\>Bhat wrote:But these have nothing to do with the name of the star, in the तैत्तिरीयब्राह्मण \>quoted.

  
Well, I think it does. Please read on.

It is generally held that nakshatras arebright stars recognized along the ecliptic for locating the position of moon in Vedic times. While this is bye and large true, Svaatii is an exception. Presently this bright star called Arcturus (alpha-Bootes) is near thecelestial equatorwith declination of about 19 degrees N. But around 1400 BC it wasway upnorth at about 39 degrees. Before the above period it wasfurther north.It was indeed 'placed out' as the word निष्ट्या very aptly indicates.

Stars are generally held to be fixed, but over long time periods they are not. Svatii has the largest proper motion (122 Km/srelative to the solar system) among the well known stars. A simple google search will throw upfurther details on this star.The discovery of the motion of Svatii is attributed in modern times to Edmund Halley. To know that the star moves in one's own life time and to measure its speedare indeed great discoveries. But what we find in the Vedic texts is a broad relative chronology; first naming the star as "kept-out" and later in Atharva-veda-paris'is.t.a (500-300BC?) referring to Svaatii-sampaata in the Kartika shuklapaksha near this star. The postulation of Vaayu as the devataa for Svaatii isa reflection of the observed motion of this star attributed to the 'winds' in the sky. Quite interestingly,Adi-kavi Vaalmiiki echoes this scientific naturalismpoeticallywhenHanuumaan says (ki. ka ch 67)

भविष्यति हि मे पन्थाः स्वातेः पन्थाः इवाम्बरे\|

Svaati was never obstructed in its southward march for several millennia. Itwas not occulted likestars RohiNii, Maghaa, which could be covered by moon or afflicted by planets. I understand there has been some effort by western indologists (Hewitt) to identify Svaatii with Aryamaa of RV.



Examples of sky description can be seen in the adhidaivata-paksha interpretation of RV by Yaska. The Apastamba Gr.Suquotation of Sri Desikapriya

मघाभिर्गावो गृह्यन्ते फल्गुनीब्यां व्यह्यते

is easily traceable toSuryaa-vivaaha-suukta (RV 10.85). Metaphorically this suukta has for its background a lunar eclipse. We can discuss this separately.



Any further comments and data on निष्ट्या are welcome.



नमो विद्वद्भ्यः

with kind regards



RN Iyengar



