+++
title = "022 R. Narayana iyengar"

+++
[[R. Narayana iyengar	2012-11-23, 09:48:45 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/u3NHRw7BO4Y)]]



Dear Prof.Bhat & Dr.Narayanan,

I am grateful to you for your detailed explanations. The reference to Shabdakalpadruma is of great help. I have understood"it is a common consensus among grammarians that

"व्युत्पत्तिनिमित्तमन्यत्, प्रवृत्तिनिमित्तमन्यत् " So there is no need to have the relation with its derived meaning with its function under different circumstances.". This does not say that there will never be any type of connection between Vyutpatti and pravrtti. In cases where we find a connection empirically ( for example by observation or by counting) I do not find any logical weakness in postulating one. This of course is no proof, but it is a way to go forward in understanding Vedic description of celestial objects which can be seen even now. This is part of what is nowadays known as Archaeo-astronomy. I would explain my interest in first knowing the Vyutpatti as a type of Arundhatii-dars'ana-nyaaya, applied in Time: to go to the more ancient from the relatively recent reachable knowledge tradition.With the little knowledge I am having, I find Bhaas.ya tradition takes recourse to Yaugikaartha of words as a means of explaining several Vedic passages. Hence my inference that the name "Svaatii is because of its self-movement" in the historical Vedic context is not devoid of logic even if grammarians may not fully support me.

  

This has been an excellent learning opportunity for me.

धन्यो'स्मि\|अनुगृ हीतोस्मि

  

RN Iyengar  

On Thu, Nov 22, 2012 at 12:38 PM, narayanan er \<[drerna...@yahoo.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> > 
> > 
> > Respected Professor Iyengar, >
> 
> >  style="font-style:normal;font-size:16px;background-color:transparent;font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif"> >
> Professor H.N. Bhat had explained everything in his previous mail on > this thread. I have nothing more to add. >
> 
> > 
> > 



> 
> > 
> >  style="font-style:normal;font-size:16px;background-color:transparent;font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif"> >
> The etymologies and derivation process are work in that way. Although > they are specifically described in their grammatical pattern, > precisely how the heard sound is justified, but have nothing to do > with their activities. If we use लावण्यम्, no salt could be used out > of it for a dish. But at the same time, when we use दाशरथिः, that man > has a relation as an offspring of दशरथः (but दश=10, and रथः=chariot > are related with that King in different way). Thanks for mails, Sir, > through which I could correct my mistakes. >
> 
> > 
> > 



