+++
title = "006 Dr. P. Ramanujan"

+++
[[Dr. P. Ramanujan	2012-12-02, 11:42:21 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/FmWlJMI8C4w)]]



On Sun, Dec 2, 2012, Sati Shankar \<[drss...@gmail.com]()\> said:  
sanghatanam or sahorjjA  

\> Maanyavar,  
\> The word "Synergetic" was brought in to lim light by German physist Herman  
\> Haken some 30 -35 years back and now in fashion as "Synergy".  
\> Originally it was intended to present "co-operative effort" or "Cooperative  
\> approach" to solve some specific problem from multi-disciplinary way.  
\>  
\> What should be its Sanskrit word?  
\>  
\> My interest in it is because, some twenty years ago, I named my Foundation  
\> as "Global Synergetic Foundation" and now looking for an appropriate  
\> Bharatiya Name for it.  
\>  
\> I would be obliged and hopefully a thought upon it would enrich Sanskrit  
\> dictionary as well.  
\> Regards  
\> Yours  
\> Sati Shankar  
\>  
\> --  
\> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
\> to subscribe go to the link below and put a request  
\> <https://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat/subscribe>  
\> To unsubscribe from this group, send email to  
\> [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]()  
\>  
\>  
\>  

\> Email secured by Check Point  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\>  
  
--  
Dr. P. Ramanujan  
AD-IHLC,  
C-DAC, Bangalore (KP)  
[ra...@cdac.in]()  
080-25246350, 66116444 (Off.-Dir.)  
  
  
  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
  
This e-mail is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may  
contain confidential and privileged information. If you are not the  
intended recipient, please contact the sender by reply e-mail and destroy  
all copies and the original message. Any unauthorized review, use,  
disclosure, dissemination, forwarding, printing or copying of this email  
is strictly prohibited and appropriate legal action will be taken.  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
  

