+++
title = "003 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2011-12-18, 21:05:39 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/7xMInCPimho)]]



dear scholars,



Most of our traditional scholars of today are not conversant with Science as it today or as it was during the Vedic Times.This is so particularly after the great Shankaracharya. So absurd things are being taught blindly. for examples, in the matter of Brahma's appraoch of Saraswati, some scholars commended that the allegory (Rupaka) applies to Ushas, the dawn, as the Mother of divas (day). It is a primary truth that mother and the child will be seen together often, in case of all species. Will any scholars point to me when Ushas and the Divas are seen together.



Science is ignorantly considered by many as if it is a taboo. On the contrary they endorse absurd theories as pilupulakanyaya; which holds that every thing dies every moment and is reborn. According to that, the god who expended one quarter of himself in creating this manifest world; died and instant a three-quarter god was born! Aha. We are making buffoon of ourselves. We cannot regain the prime glory of the Vedic period by sticking to some absurdities blindly.



I promised to post on the suggestion of a scholar some propositions. unfortunately the scholars were focussion on minor grammatical variations (aberrations, may be, according to them); but they could not see the Himalayan truths. That is why the Vedas say that all cannot see the innate truth; butonly the outer truth. For example, I posted the correct positions as to the so-called Brahma's incest of his daughter; after a four year research, and the Nasadiya sukta, which commences with Na asat asit; both of which instances have been grossly misinterpreted. How many scholars are interested in bringing out truth, satisfactorily.?



One hope is the Dr. S,Ramakrishna Sharma, Director, Foundation for Indian Scientific Heritage, is interested; and has intimated me his intention of meeting me around the 26th inst. to chalk out pratical steps in this regard. Unfortunately, even those scholars who are interested; express interest only in applications like astronomy or ayurveda giving scope to the absurdities that astronomy originated in Greece; on the strength of one Shloka of Varaha Mihira. Scientist-Historians like Dr.N.S.Rajaram ignore the latest discoveries of evidence in the field of science; which tend towards upholding the Timeframe of Manu than the biblical timeframe that Max Muller chalked out.



The Germans and the Russians have been studioulsy researching into the pure sciences in the Vedas; and we are way behind them.  

On Sun, Dec 18, 2011 at 6:53 PM, Madhusoodana Bhat \<[madhus...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  



