+++
title = "023 Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)	2015-06-13, 21:20:44 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/POED0U3MzYY)]]



Namaste Bijoy Misra ji



I agree on the observation of Dr. Bijoy Misra :\< that the seminaries, madrasas and the Hindu religious schools have a mission of preparing people for the trade \>. I agree that \< Individual superiority> of one specific Trade can not be to the detriment, denigration and destruction of excellence of any another specific trade.



This part of Vedic understanding , to train a professional of Trade and Skills needed for worldly prosperity, the Technology wing of Vedas was the forte of ‘Viswakarma’ community, now called as ‘Devanga’ community in India. (<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Devanga> ) Though marked for the craftsmen ship of weaving, the broad understanding of the word ‘Vishwakarma community’ is all craftsmen and skilled professionals who derive their authority and value system from Vedas. The same applies to the goldsmiths, sthapati’s, shilpi’s et al. These communities that were unified under ONE VEDIC UMBRELLA of ‘VISHWA KARMA VEDA’ got splintered in to ‘CASTES’ under social categorization, organization and administration. This integrity and unity was shown to society in the Devalaya Pratishtaa vidhi’ and worship, which is now debauched as ‘Hindu Mandirs’ with ‘Caste –Creed-Competition with no respect for Competence’. 



Over a period of time, these communities got alienated from the ‘other end of ‘BRAHMA-KARMA VEDA’ aka the Vednata traditions guarded by the Shaastrakaaraas and Acharyas; socially ending up as ‘ upper caste thread wearing veda-ranters’.



Vishwakarma is another name for Brahma; The Creator, who is an icon of the Unified approach to Vedic studies and Practice. When Hindu Religious schools cut their umbilical cord to this ‘Vedic Root’ and the life-supporting fluid of Yoga-Samskrutham’, the outcome is what you are pointing: The forgetting of the mission of Vedas for society, a
commitment and responsibility to make the community to be a place to live with the good practicing professionals of Veda ( Knowledge Pure and Applied for social welfare) .



Regards

BVK Sastry



------------------------------------------------------------------------

No virus found in this message.  
Checked by AVG - [www.avg.com](http://www.avg.com)  
Version: 2015.0.5961 / Virus Database: 4360/10007 - Release Date: 06/13/15

