+++
title = "002 Dr.BVK Sastry (Gmail)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (Gmail)	2013-07-03, 18:18:48 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/hH17CwBTexE)]]



Namaste



1. My response on uNAdi was to address two specific issues: (1a) How a Samskrutha Pada needs to be addressed in breaking in to parts . This is about the structural integrity of the word –sentence. (1b) . The applicable rules and allowable freedom and latitude of creativity in interpreting the word for a meaning.



Kavya allows this latitude. It is for ‘rasa-dhvani –vyanjanaa –sahrudaya vyaparaavrutti’. This is the realm of unlimited freedom. (kavireva prajapatih). Anandavardhna is right in this. This statement does not make Shastra to be treated as Kavya.



2. Shastra allows limited freedom within the domain. Paribhashaa defines this . This is a strict rule based, domain specific freedom.
uNAdi explanation is a technicality of intermediary nature within ‘Vedanga Vyakarana’ prakriyaa. When ‘Pada –Prakruti’ is split as
‘Dhatu + uNADi pratyaya’ under a certain context, the rules would be meaningful. Beyond that, it is a jugglery. Example:The word ‘prakruti’ has multivalent meanings in kavya ; Specific multivalent meanings in each shastra. The meaning of prakruti in Vedanta can not be ported indiscriminately to Samkhya or Ayurveda.



3. Veda (Darshana /Chandas) does not allow freedom of INTERPRETATION. The Association of Nama-Roopa :: Shabda-Artha is Nithya. What is allowed is getting a contextual guidance with in the frame of the ‘Darshana’ defined by the ‘Rishi-Devataa-Chandas –Viniyoga –Veda lakshana’. If this subtle understanding is overlooked, there is no reason to see the same ‘Purusha Sukta’ in seventeen versions in four Vedas. Switch in Veda perspective switches the ‘ backdrop’ of ‘darshana = perception’. uNADi jugglery is not the solution in understanding Veda.



4. Summing up, all pada-vyutpatti needs to respect the frame in which it occurs : For Kavya, it is pratibhaa-anu –Shasana ; For Shastra, it is Acahrya/ Yoga -anu –Shasana ; For Veda Chandas it is
Darshana -anu –Shasana.



Violating this by inaccurately invoking ‘bahulam /baahulakam’ is not correct.



Regards

BVK Sastry





