+++
title = "004 Dr. T. Ganesan"

+++
[[Dr. T. Ganesan	2014-07-10, 10:39:26 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/CLsVARdZStU)]]



  
My reply is as below in italics:

  
  
On 10-07-2014 09:54, Nagaraj Paturi wrote:  

> 
> > 
> > "As I had said in connection with an earlier thread in this same > forum, Advaita VedAnta saMnyAsI-s are either ParivrAjaka-s or > KuTIcaka-s or BahUdaka-s which fundamentally means that a strict > Advaita vedAnta monk is supposed not to stay at a particular place for > more than a night or two". >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > \- Which Advaita authority has said this? >
> 
> > 

*The text whose name I do not remember now, probably (Yatidharmaprabodha or Yatidharmaprakaashikaa) commences the saMnyAsa rites with "* *अथातः कापिलसंन्यासविधिं व्याख्यास्यामः ।" which is considered to be authoritative by the Advaita vedAnta tradition now, and which , I have
heard , is the basic text dealing with the rites of saMnyAsa that is followed, deals with these type of saMnySAI-s; also you may refer to the JIvanmuktiviveka of VidyAraNya for various types of saMnyAsI-s, such as vidvatsamNyAsa and vividishAsaMnyAsa, etc.* *  
Also I will be thankful to know any other text of authority followed now by the SaMkara MaTha-s for these rites.*  

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > In what way, 'KuTIcaka'-s or 'BahUdaka-s' is connected to "supposed > not to stay at a particular place for more than a night or two" >
> 
> > 

*That is what these terms mean. Even in bhikshA there is mAdhUkarIbhikshA--collecting alms from different houses just as bees collect honey from different flowers.  
I put the question in turn, Which Advaita vedAnta text prescribes/says that the saMnyAsI can stay in a MaTha for so long as he wishes?*  

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > "It is common knowledge that Advaita VedAnta does not prescribe temple > construction/temple worship; nor such an act is part of its spiritual > practices by any stretch of theory or imagination". >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > -Where does it proscribe it either? >
> 
> > 

*You are posing /repeating the question which I had put. My point is the Advaita tradition does not prescribe temple construction/temple worship; nor such an act is part of its spiritual practices. When it does not prescribe temple construction/temple worship, the present case of some Advaita VedAnta MaTha-s managing temple(s) is not according to tradition/saMpradAya. Do you agree on this?*

  

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > "And, interestingly, which is again significant in this connection, we > do not find any Saiva theme or motif or purANa stories depicted in the > VishNu temples !! Needless to say who is more inclusive !!" >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > -Whose 'we are more inclusive' claim is being counter-argued by Dr. > Ganeshanji here? Did any of those Vishnu temples people claim in this > forum, "we are more inclusive" ? >
> 
> > 

*The "we" here refers to the followers of Advaita vedAnta, who claim that "*Only an advaita-vEdaanta mutt having equal regards for all the theistic sects of sanaatanadharma can have such an inclusive approach*" as it had been expressed by Sri R. Ganesh in his mail.*

  

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > There are many other questions like that. >
> 
> > 

  

*Now that I have answered yous questions, you have not yet answered my earlier question put in my previous mail: If scholars find any text belonging to the advaita vedAnta tradition that* **prescribes construction/management of a maTha or a temple** *which is* **inclusive, exhibiting equal regard for all gods** **of our sanAtanadharma*, let them announce it and give the details for which the scholarly world will be thankful.  
*  
Regards  
  
Ganesan



