+++
title = "006 Dr. T. Ganesan"

+++
[[Dr. T. Ganesan	2014-07-10, 15:01:07 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/CLsVARdZStU)]]



  
My dear frined,  

1.  *The discussion in this thread started with the origins and
    practices of "traditionally accepted Advaita vedAnta MaTha-s",
    taking the example of the SRNgeri MaTha; then the question of the
    authoritative ritual text(s) followed in these "Traditional MaTha-s"
    which claim Samkara as their founder by their followers, thus taking
    our discussion to the ancient period. So naturally there is no
    discussion about any of these 19th-20th century MaTha-s mentioned by
    you (KailAsa Ashrama, , daNDatyAgI sampradAya, etc.) which stand
    altogether in a different footing and which, at the same time (I
    mean the founders and the followers) swear by Advaita VedAnta and
    Samkara.*

1.  You may call us advaitin because we support advaita-philosophy, and
    not because our sannyAsa is according to such tradition.

*What is meant by this ? Who are these "we" ? the laymen or the saMnyAsI-s ? If the saMnyAsa is not according to such tradition, then what is the goal of saMnyAsa in that tradition ?*  

 3. Till date, I've not heard the term 'kApila-sannyAsa' being used for us in any text. We are not sA\~Nkhya-s at all.  

*That is not your fault any way. But the term is an ancient one and as I have cited in my earlier mail, it means the VedAnta saMnyAsa. Probably because, jNAna is given more importance than karma in that tradition. To denote jNAna as sAMkhya is as old as the BhagavadgItA from which many passages can be cited from the 2nd, 5th, 10th adhyAya-s.*

*For example, the passage:* sāṃkhyayogau pthagbālāḥ pravadanti na paṇḍitāḥ . *where sAMkhya is related to jNAna and yoga, to karma.  
*

*kApila is not necessarily related to sage Kapila in this case, and just by telling kApila one does not become a follower of sAMkhyadarshana.  
*

*The following passage from BhagavadgItA 10: 26 proves it:  
   * aśvatthaḥ sarva-vṛkṣāṇāṃ devarṣīṇāṃ ca nāradaḥ \|  
   gandharvāṇāṃ citrarathaḥ siddhānāṃ kapilo muniḥ \|\|26\|\|*  
By stating this does KRshNa become a adherent of sAMkhya* *nsystem ?*  
  
  
4. And, while explaining upaniShad-s, shrI upaniShad-brahmendra supports it by saying that for sake of vedAntAdhyayana, a sannyAsI can stay with guru for long. There can be no serious study for ever moving man.  
*  
On which authority does he say so ?*  
  
  
Ganesan





``` -- 
Dr.T.Ganesan Senior Researcher in Saivasiddhanta French Institute of Pondicherry UMIFRE 21 CNRS-MAEE 11, St. Louis Street P.B. 33  PONDICHERRY-605001 INDIA Tel: +91 - 413 - 22 31 643 E mail: gan...@ifpindia.org Web: www.ifpindia.org ```

