+++
title = "014 Dr. T. Ganesan"

+++
[[Dr. T. Ganesan	2014-07-17, 12:14:19 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/CLsVARdZStU)]]



  
Dear Vidyasankar,  
According to the colophon of the SUtasaMhitAtAtparyadIpikA, its author MAdhava was the disciple of \[kAshIvilAsa\]Kriyasakti paNDita. Both of them belong to the kAlAmukha tradition as there are quite a few inscriptions about their activities in the VidyAshaMkara temple. MAdhava is MAdhavamantrI and he seems to have come from Kashmir. The two MAdhava-s are different as they belong to different gotra-s.  
There is an excellent study on the spread of kAlAmukha tradition in the northern part of Karnataka based mainly on inscriptions (of which many are in Kannada) by the Australian scholar Lorenzen with the titile *The Kapalika-s and the Kalamukha-s.*  
  
As far as I know there is no Jaina connection or background for any of these: the kAlAmukha or the Sringeri maTha.  
On which authority/reference do you pose this question ?  
  
Regarding references to research papers based on the inscriptions of ancient Saiva maTha-s I just remember one such by Dr. R.N. Mishra and about others I am not able to recollect right now as I read them many years ago; even there, studies about Saiva lineages such as the Golaki, Amardaka are more than on Pushpagiri. But Golaki, Amardaka, and Pushpagiri are generally mentioned together.  
I will try to locate some of them in my collection of papers after some time and inform you.  
  
My basic question is how the \[advaita\]vedAnta saMnyAsa tradition which in its origin was absolutely innocent of any maTha or organised monastery with retinues and elaborate worship, etc. and which insists its saMnyAsI-s (paramahaMsa, avadhUta, bahUdaka, .....) perform only praNavajapa and which stresses utmost on the vow of aparigraha, etc.
for them, and which has next to nothing to do with temple, and whose basic doctrine was everything is mithyA other than kevala Brahma, started " gobbling up everything under the Indian hot sun" from the 13-14th century onwards.  
If the Sringeri maTha as an advaita maTha existed from Sankara's time, why is there no reference or mention or any inscriptional evidence ?  
  
On the contrary, we do find a large body of inscriptions related to the kAlAmukha Saiva AchArya-s in the area around Sringeri and in the Vidyasankara tempel itself.  
How would you explain this anamoly ?  
  
  
  
Yours  
Ganesan





