+++
title = "023 Dr. T. Ganesan"

+++
[[Dr. T. Ganesan	2014-07-18, 17:11:47 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/CLsVARdZStU)]]



  
To answer in a direct way:

  
  
-*What is the evidence for  
1".which in its origin was absolutely innocent of any maTha or organised monastery with retinues and elaborate worship, etc"*  
  

To answer this, I put the following questions back: Do we find any ancient maTha instituted and run by the saMnyAsi-s belonging to the VedAnta tradition long before Sankara ? If there is one, can you mention it or cite any early refrence (either textual or inscriptional, which are , in fact, the two major sources of history for any doctrine/personage/event) ? As it is said in one of the early discussions in this thread by Srii lalitaalaalita, *sha\~NkarachArya didn't commence or devise sannyAsa and it is as old as other Ashrama-s and veda-s*, any reference from the multitutde of Sankaravijayam is of no use. For we are discussing the existence or otherwise of such an organised maTha before Sankara. Then coming to the time of Sankara, where is the evidence, other than Sankaravijayam, for the establishment of different maTha-s by Sankara ? Can any other textual or inscriptional eveidence be cited ? If Sankara had travelled throughout the Bharatadesha and established four maTha-s in the four directions, how is it the event of such a magnitude was never mentioned anywhere either in some texts or inscriptions from any part of the country? But , on the contrary, I repeat as I have done earlier, there are many inscriptions, mostly in Sanskrit, that talk about the Saiva maTha-s such as the Golakii, Amardaka, etc. in the country of DakshhiNa Kosala (approximately the area of the present Chattisgarh, northern Odisha), in the country called Haihaya and others on the banks of Narmadaa, to cite a few that I remember and able to recollect now, *even as early as the 6th century, much before Sankara.* I could recollect one such inscription of the period of Sivagupta Balarjuna. There are still other inscriptions some of which are longer, that give the entire lineage of the Saiva Acharya-s, clearly giving the successors diikshaa names such as the Prabodhasiva, Dharmasiva, Hridayasiva, etc. Not only that, whenever these Saiva maTha-s establish their branches, the Acharya lineages of that maTha are clearly stated. The long Malkapuram inscription in Sanskrit of the Visvesvarasivacharya who was the head of the local branch of Golakii maTha is very well known and it is known as Visvesvaragolakii.  
  
Further, as I had said in this regard long ago, there are clear procedures for the construction and therites of installation of maTha for Saiva Achrya-s and his disciples with details on the various rooms meant for different purposes called "maThapratishhThAvidhi" in some of the available Saiva Agama-s. But can you cite any such text in the vedAnta or any other tradition ??

  
  
2. *and which insists its saMnyAsI-s (paramahaMsa, avadhUta, bahUdaka, .....) perform only praNavajapa*  
  

As I had stated in my earlier mails, the text that talks about the kaapilasaMnyaasa also prescribes the praNavajapa, and not only thta, the saMnyAsii can either utter nArAyaNasmRti or sadAshivasmRti. But unfortunately I am not all able to recollect the name of this old text which was shown to me by my esteemed scholar friend here who is now no more. By kApilasaMnyAsa is meant those saMnyAsii-s who wear the tawny brown cloth (kAshhAyavastra) after saMnyAsadiikshhaa as kapila means tawny brown and has nothing to do with sage Kapila as one of our friends raised the question earlier. KapilA is a term used for brown coloured cow and we find KapilApUjA as one of the obligatory daily rites of a Saiva Achaarya as mentioned in almost all Saiva Agama-s and the Saiva ritual paddhati texts.  

  
  
3. *and which has next to nothing to do with temple*  
  

Yes. I repeat the same question that I had put before: Which text dealing with saMnyAsa of the vedAnta type says or prescribes daily elaborate rites of worship for the saMnyAsii ?? Can you cite any one ?  
In fact I ask the question: which text does prescribe such an elaborate worship as well as management of a temple ? Do you have an answer for this ?  
  
If there is/are textual references as well as inscriptional evidences for the existence, construction and different form of elaborate worship and management of a temple in the vedAnta tradition, mention them.  
Otherwise there is no point in putting the questions back to me. For, as I had said before, the situation with regard to Saiva tradition in this case is on firmer and solid grounds (with textual and large number of inscriptions) which the vedAnta tradition completely lacks. This is my point.  
  
Ganesan  
  

  
On 18-07-2014 11:45, Nagaraj Paturi wrote:  



