+++
title = "028 Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)	2014-07-19, 10:42:48 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/CLsVARdZStU)]]



Namaste



This thread of discussion has many involved issues and lacking clarity on what is being presented. Probably, a basic clarity on the literal
meaning of \< maTha> , a Samskrutham word, which has suffered a ‘ bad translation’ as ‘ organized monastery’ in this discussion, may help in resolving the debated issue. 



Summary points made are as follows:

A) \<Shankara-aamnaaya-peetha / maTha> tradition is derived as a renovation and re-invigoration by Acharya Shankara for ancient Veda-Guru-kula tradition.

B) It is not an adhoc historic formation for which one has to look for inscription and other evidences tracing it to kaalaamukha et al.

C) The concept of ‘ Veda-Gurukula’ is as old as Vedas itself ! Enough references are there in upanishats to show how a Gurukula functions ( Cf. Prashnopanishat / Bruhadaranyaka /Chandogya /Taittiriya ..).

D) There is no reason to imagine absolute innocence of an \<organized monastery model> which could not accommodate \< elaborate worship> and locked to \<Pranava japa?!) \> only.

E) The concept of a modern \<Temple> as an integral \<money rollout> form of \< maTha> is a social transformation ; rather an aberration of the original concept of a \< Devaalaya as an integral part of Guru-nilaya = House and School of a Guru tradition following Veda-abhyasa>. 

This is also a pointer to the way ‘ twice-born-community, who are supposed to be the learners-practitioners – guardians and supporters of
Veda- Vedanga –Education traditions ( Vedaadhyaayi Viprah) have socially and spiritually down sized their own responsibility and commitments, using the soft-sops of ‘ Bhakti –Danam practices’
demonstrated as ‘ charities to temple and tax-exempt offerings as
hefty donations for social causes! And potpourri of religion festivities to generate people-traffic-revenues ’. 

I hope this covers all the points in the question raised by Nagaraj paturi reading \< "My basic question is how the \[advaita\]vedAnta saMnyAsa tradition which in its origin was absolutely innocent of any maTha or organised monastery with retinues and elaborate worship, etc. and which insists its saMnyAsI-s (paramahaMsa, avadhUta, bahUdaka, .....) perform only praNavajapa and which stresses utmost on the vow of aparigraha, etc. for them, and which has next to nothing to do with temple, and whose basic doctrine was everything is mithyA other than kevala Brahma," -What is the evidence for

1".which in its origin was absolutely innocent of any maTha or organised monastery with retinues and elaborate worship, etc" 2. and which insists its saMnyAsI-s (paramahaMsa, avadhUta, bahUdaka, .....) perform only praNavajapa 3. and which has next to nothing to do with temple
>



I Seek scholars opinion on this approach to resolve the issue debated. 



1. The starting point is to fix the anchor for the meaning of the word \<maTha / peeTha> as it would have been prevalent in the language context of Acharya Shankara’s society.



The meaning of \<maTha / peeTha> is clearly firmed up around second
century and is available in ‘Amara-Kosha’. The word \< maTha> is found in \<Amara-Kosha>. It has a specific meaning \<Chaatraadi nilayah> =
A residential school / A place where Students /seekers of specific subject discipline are ‘residing / assemble for learning’. 



The saying is Acharya Shankara established \<aamnaaya-peethas> which we call now as \<Shankara-maTha>. Aamnaaya –peeTha means a place where higher education and excellence of Vedas are taught. This designation seems to keep the institution unique and clear from the \< social usage of the word as ‘Pilgrim Choultry’ = Hostel / a place of accommodation for pilgrims, which was maintained under royal /state patronage, where ‘ food-shelter serving is the primary activity’ and not education of a specific shaastra. 



\< Shankara –Aamnaaya-PeeTha / Shankara-maTha> as a residential school, necessitates that the head of such a school has to be the master of the discipline taught at that school. The subject taught at the school decides the qualification of the Head of the \<maTha>. If the school is focused on \<Shankara> teaching, then the school is \<Shankara-Matha>. If the place is \<Sringeri>, then it is \<Sringeri –Shankara – maTha>.



The word \< aamnaaya –peetha> means a place of higher education and institution of excellence in Vedas. \<aamnaaya> is the word for the entirety of Vedas . \< peetha> is the word for ‘ institution of higher education. 



The word ‘\<aadi - nilaya> can cover any other residents interested in the specific discipline taught at that school. OR \<aadi> can also mean the \<First-Founding, First place, Beginning institution, Primary institution> .Either way, the residential educational school nature of the institution is still retained.



2. Based on this, the literal, technical meaning of the word \<
Shankara –maTha / aamnaaya –peetha \> would to be \< a place / First and foremost place where Students /seekers of vedic studies in the lineage and line of thought propounded by Acharya Shankara>
teachings are ‘residing / assembled for learning’ .



The leader of such an establishment is a \< Shankara-maTha-aadhipati> =
Resident – Professor and Warden of Veda- shaastra-study- school as per Shankara’s teaching’ .



3. The best qualified person for this post would be a Practicing- Scholar of Adviata tradition and with an executive ability to lead an education institution in a given social set up.



 So the ‘ Peetha-aadhipatya’ (Executive leadership of the Shankara- maTha, brings in two issues for consideration: One based on Qualification ( = saamarthya -yogyataa) acquired through education and practice of tapas-anaushThana and Second – the social Varna-Ashrama
\< birth –parentage –samksara –ashrama dharma adoption to Sannyasa>. In the public eye, Shankara-matha thus is headed by a \< Sannyasi \> of a \< specific lineage and social order> !



 This does not change in any way the basic nature and duty of Shankara-matha /Aamnaaya-peetha. In this sense, \<Shankara-maTha> is precisely the re-invigorated model of a ‘Veda-Gurukula’ adopted for a ‘Vedanta –Shaastra –Guru-Kula’. Vedaanta being a highly specialized subject with a pre-qualification of ‘post Gruhastha /vanaprastha’ ashrama, the head of such a school has to be necessarily a ‘ saffron wearer with entry in to ‘Sannyasa’ . It does not matter what sub-flavor of sannyasa one has taken ! 



 In this sense, the \<historic model of Kaalaamukhas / Jaina /Bauddha \> Gurus, Sangha model approach / The current \< maTha-Swamy ji / Saffron wearing leaderships / the ‘ semi-saffron wearing’ seva-vrati issues at several institutions / fancy self-declared title-holding paramahamsas and Nithya Brahmanandas … / Sarswati’s, Yogi’s, Babas and Giri’s …. ( on global operations in institution brand building effort) do not map or match to the original conceptualization of what a Shankara-maTha as a Aamnaaya-Peetha is supposed to be doing.



 The neo /new transformed role play of \< aamnaaya-peeTham> has become one of \< ‘Community –Religious-Sectarian identity leadership in the name of specific Gurus’>. This is just an observation of socio-religion dynamics . The ‘ forest-academy- limited / local indian bramhinical community ’ blinkers still operate in many places , limiting the ways to address the global challenge of what a \<Shankara-Aamnaaya-Peetha / Shankara-Matha> should do and delive beyond \< a Temple worship, as a place for community for faith-worship /samskara /ritual practice/ socialization and get together’ ??



 There is a need for deliberating the impact of shift in \< Aamnaaya-peethas> from seeking /providing guidance on \<Paramaartha>
through \<aamnaaya> to a new paradigm of \< Socio-religious community leadership = Congregational institutional brand model \> to install and guide a \< Specific flavors of Dharmic faith – belief practice> as a continuum of medieval traditions serving as a bridge and continuity of ancient Indian wisdom in the Smriti’s /Dharma-Shaastras.



3. Now comes the tricky point. How Should the \< Peethadhipathi> of such a \<Shankara-maTha> function and guide the society? How does one compare the \<Peethadhipathi> of a \<Shankara-maTha> with \< Peethadhipathi> of another Sampradaya, which are mainly flavors of \< Vedic Practice> and make a historical research proposition?
Kaalamukhas as much depend upon Veda albeit a different way of understanding and practicing the tradition. Jaina and Bauddha \< Sanga-Adhyaksha> can not be used as a comparison for the \< Veda related PeeThadhpati> due to prima facie incompatible expectations !



Coming back to the main issue again, \< What should be the personal life style of such a PeeThadhipati - leader? What primary role should \< PeeThadhipati> play: A Master-Scholar – Professor–Practitioner of the Aamnaaya- (Vyasa) Acharya-Sampradaya? A counselor on (Manu)
Dharma-Shaastra? A Chief executive of an educational institution for Vedas ? A social reformer ? Or just be a person demonstrating a life of
Sannyasa-Sadhana as a living community member of current society? Should this person be a \<Saadhaka –Sannyasi of Paramahamsa order, with absolutely no need to get involved in the socio-religious dynamics> ? Or play a community / nation building role ? ( Loka-Sangraha or
Aatmodhaara/ upaasanaa or Upadesha? ) What does the history of all the three Acharyas demonstrate to us ?



 In other words, what is the difference between a \<peetha-adhipati> - \<maTha-adhipati> - \< Sannyasi of several orders and flavors \> - \< A post gruhastha-ashrama person entering the terrain of Vanaprashta and donning the role of a ‘Sannyasi and sadhaka’ for personal progress \> ? Where and why does such a person need the support of a \< Dharmadhikari for a maTha – establishment ? \> ? How has modern Indian government meddled with the \<aamnaaya-peeTha/ maTha> system to usurp power over the wealth of the \< peetham/maTham> in the name of religion endowments acts? ? The interface and interaction of \<Khaadi –Khaaki \> :: Two different kinds of clothe vying to impact the societal welfare and power-balances is a very dynamic challenge.



 On handling this sensitive point, the life of many \< Shankara-matha –peeThadhipati’s> provides guidance. Some have focused on social relevance from their post; some have delegated the authority to
\< socially efficient Dharmadhikari’s>. Every option has its fall outs!




Summing up, the \<Shankara-maTha> is having its conceptual roots and model as \< Aamnaaya-Peetha> is the revival of \< Veda-Gurukula> of Upanishads as :: \< Institutions of Excellence for Higher education and Practice of Veda –Dharma> in a specific flavor as guided by Acharya Shankara.



Regards

BVK Sastry



------------------------------------------------------------------------

No virus found in this message.  
Checked by AVG - [www.avg.com](http://www.avg.com)  
Version: 2014.0.4716 / Virus Database: 3986/7879 - Release Date: 07/18/14

