+++
title = "038 Dr. T. Ganesan"

+++
[[Dr. T. Ganesan	2014-07-23, 18:04:02 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/CLsVARdZStU)]]



  
In none of the passages of Samkara's commentary cited below, we find any direct prescription/injunction that the saMnyAsI- should perform pratimArAdhana, temple worship and manage temples, as it is well known to all of us that some of the SaMkara maTha-s now fully control some temples in different parts of the country. These passages just say that the yogI can practise dhyAna, worship, etc. but not as a vidhi or as a daily obligatory rite which again is seen in all the SaMkara maTha-s now.  
The same is the case with some passages cited from the compilation Paramahamsa dharma Nirnaya.  
  
That is the main reason why any textual or inscriptional record for the existence of such an institutionalised maTha with temple(s) attached under the Advaita vedAnta tradition and much less by any other vedAnta school, from the earliest period upto 12-13th century, in any part of our country, *is conspicuous by its absence.  
*But the enormity of such records available in the case of PAshupata as well as the Saiva maTha-s such as Golaki, Amardaka, etc. in almost all parts of the country from the 4-5th century onwards *give us an entirely different picture of the religious situation (maTha and temple management) that prevailed in those times,* which I had already briefly stated earlier.  
  
So my question still stands: Traditional Advaita vedAnta saMnyAsa as it was practised in SaMkara's period and still before and the modern practise with elaborate pratimApUjA (including the tAntrika SrIcakrapUjA), management of temples under the name and control of the modern day Samkara maTha-s in our country.  
The simple answer would be that the ancient practise of paramahamsa and parivrAjaka, kuTIcaka, bahUdakaetc. of the vedAnta system has been much modified in the course of these centuries *with a lot of accretions and additions that were considered to be very much contrary to the fundamental principle and aim of this type of saMnyAsa tradition*, due to various causes such as changed socio-political conditions, religious condition and propaganda (for which very late texts like the Samkaravijayam-s that vie with one another in presenting conflicting facts, have been utilised), etc.  
  
  
Ganesan





