+++
title = "040 Dr. T. Ganesan"

+++
[[Dr. T. Ganesan	2014-07-24, 11:02:09 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/CLsVARdZStU)]]



  
Dear Vidyasankar,  
No need to waste your time to bring in pUrvamImAMsA principles here !  
After reading this it becomes clear you have not at all understood my point.  
As I had said in my earlier post "these passages just say that the yogI can practise dhyAna, worship, etc. but not as a vidhi or as a daily obligatory rite"  
  
You will do well to read my question with due attention which I repeat again in italics:

  
  
*So my question still stands: Traditional Advaita vedAnta saMnyAsa as it was practised in SaMkara's period and still before and the modern practise with elaborate pratimApUjA (including the tAntrika SrIcakrapUjA), management of temples under the name and control of the modern day Samkara maTha-s in our country.*  
  

At one breath you say for the jnAnI, no vidhi-s and no pratishedha-s are binding. But at the same time we observe elaborate pratimApUjA and and the tAntrika SrIcakrapUjA meticulously performed by the saMnyAsI-s of the many Samkara maTha-s .  
I am not all talking about whether the saMnyAsI temporarily resides in a temple or not. My point is under which shAstra he is allowed to manage the affairs of such temple(s) now, or from the 15-16th century.  
My very question which I repeat again is how is this anamoly to be explained ? You are just repeating the situation we find now but fail to answer the question in your replies.  
  
There is no point in invoking UpaniShadbrahmendra YogI's commentaries here who is obviously a late 18-19th century commentator whose basic purpose of commenting so many upaniShad-s is entirely different, or for that matter, even VidyAraNya. For, in all likelihood, the practise and basic idea of a vedAnta/Sankara maTha has been very much changed since then, that is from the 15-16th century onwards for which VidyAraNya might have been a beginner.  
Again, to repeat what I had said in my earlier post which you seem to have missed, the *traditional Advaita vedAnta saMnyAsa as it was practised in SaMkara's period and still before* was completely different from the modern one that we all see now.  
In accepting that we should also accept that *most of these changes are alien to and contradictory to the principles of advaita vedAnta and of old conceptions of saMnyAsa*.  
  
To put it in a nut shell: The saMnyAsa that was practised before Sankara and during the period from Sankara upto 14th century was very much different in most respects from the present situation in Sankara maTha-s for which sea-change there seems to be no ancient scriptural authority.  
  
Ganesan





