+++
title = "005 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-02-27, 23:36:19 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/i4DmcrV-Nrk)]]



Namaste



1. On \< संस्कृतव्यवहारे कतिचन प्रयोगान् वक्तुमसमर्थ:। > : If one is clear on what one wants to say, there are Paninian rules that permit one to articulate the intention through proper processing of the chosen words. This is called ‘ Vivakshita- artha –abhidhanaartham vyakarana –pada-prakriyaa. Of course, no one has ever promised that this is an easy task; not even Panini or Patanjali. The rule is straight simple. If speaker is clear on what to say and what terms one wants to use in saying, there is a ‘grammar rule set’ which helps to articulate the intended thought. Serious mahakavi’s like Bhatti use this approach to make a statement of pride ( or ridicule of other poets) that their work is for those who have made ‘ deep effort in the discipline of Panini’.





2. On \< आंग्लभाषायाम् हिंदीभाषायाम् वा ये प्रयोगाः रुढा: तेषां संस्कृते अनुवादं कथं स्यात्? > This is a separate issue of ‘ TRANSLATION from a Source Language to Target language. The TRANSLATOR needs to know much more than Grammar , dictionary; and be conversant with the Culture of language using community.



The agonizing pain of current Sanskrit Translations by many note worthy names of high repute and popularity suffers from this shortcoming. This legacy goes back to the roots of Colonial Translations of Samskruth Source works in to ‘ English’ and ‘ several Indian publishers who made Samskruth Text with a ( simplified/ Sanskritized ?? ) Hindi and got them distributed throughout the nation.



Both teams made a significant deviation from the classical tradition of Samskruth Vyaakhyaana Paddhati by missing the key understanding of
three functionalities related to language –professional work: 

‘ Anu-Vaada’ which means literal Translation ( Tat- anu = paschat
vadati ; Repeats after the tunes in the original source).

‘ Vyaakhyaanam’ – bringing out the essence and intention of the text ( vishesha aakhyaanam karoti)

‘ samanvayam’ – Constructs Cogently and harmoniously the communication embedded in the source work in to the language of the target work .



Each of these skills calls for different kind of training. And Again, this is not easy and easily acquired.



Especially when the ‘ downgraded slack communication’ needs to be refined and upgraded to the level of ‘Samskrutham’.



These are technical challenges of Machine Translation, Computational Sanskrit Linguistics, Scripture Translation, Language Technology, AI et al. And not for open forum discussions on scrambled topics and threads.



Regards

BVK Sastry











>   
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().

>   
> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.



--  

You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  

To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().



