+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-11-19, 04:57:41 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/hdeBn0dWFy4)]]



Position: Media Studies, Lecturer (one-year, renewable) University of California - Berkeley

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

  

  

University of California - Berkeley, Media Studies

  

Lecturer, Media Studies

  

  

Institution Type: College / University

Location: California, United States

Position: Lecturer

  

  

UC Berkeley's interdisciplinary Media Studies program is seeking a candidate to fill a full-time, one-year lecturer position for the 2011-2012 academic year, with the possibility of renewal. Media Studies at Berkeley is one of twelve major programs in the Office of Undergraduate & Interdisciplinary Studies. Candidates should be able to teach courses that examine media institutions, technologies, texts, and/or audiences from a historical and analytical perspective.
Expertise and teaching experience in any of the following areas are particularly desirable: intro to media studies, visual communication, media and technology, television criticism, international media, media history. A full-time teaching load is six classes, or five classes plus some advising. Salary is commensurate with qualifications and experience.

  

To be considered for the position, candidates must have a Ph.D. in hand by August 2011 and should send curriculum vitae, teaching evaluations, sample course syllabi, and at least three letters of recommendation by February 1, 2011 to: Jean P. Retzinger, Assistant Director, Media Studies, 231 Evans Hall #2922, University of California, Berkeley, CA
94720-2922. Refer potential reviewers to the UC Berkeley Statement of Confidentiality found at: <http://apo.chance.berkeley.edu/evalltr.html>

  

For further information about the program or about applying, please e-mail Jean Retzinger at [jpr...@berkeley.edu]()

  

The University of California is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer.

  

  

Contact: Jean P. Retzinger, Assistant Director, Media Studies, 231 Evans Hall #2922, University of California, Berkeley, CA 94720-2922

  

Website: <http://ls.berkeley.edu/ugis/mediastudies/>

Primary Category: Theatre and History of Theatre

  

Secondary Categories: None

Posting Date: 11/17/2010

Closing Date 12/17/2010

Position(s): Economic History, Lectureships, London School of Economics and Politics (2)

  

London School of Economics and Political Science, Economic History

  

Lectureships, Economic History

  

  

Institution Type: Other

Location: United Kingdom

Position: Lecturer

  

  

The Department of Economic History at LSE hopes to appoint two Lecturers

in Economic History from 1 August 2011.

  

Following in a long, distinguished tradition of research and teaching,

the Department of Economic History uses concepts and theories from

the social sciences as a starting point for studying the development of

real economies and understanding them in their social, political and

cultural contexts. Teaching and research in the Department has a

global emphasis and the expertise of current faculty is diverse in

subject matter, theoretical emphasis and methodology.

  

We welcome applications from all fields of economic history in its

broadest sense. We are particularly keen to receive applications from

individuals whose expertise would complement and extend existing

teaching and research in the Department. You will have a completed

or nearly completed PhD.

  

You will teach, publish research, supervise student dissertations and act

as Academic Advisor to students at all levels. You will also be expected

to participate in the administration of the Department and the School.

  

  

Contact: To apply for this post, please go to [www.lse.ac.uk/JobsatLSE](http://www.lse.ac.uk/JobsatLSE)

and select "Visit the ONLINE RECRUITMENT SYSTEM". If you

have any queries about applying on the online system, please

call 020 7955 7859 or email [hr.recr...@lse.ac.uk]() quoting

reference LEC/10/13.

  

Applications must be received online by 11:59pm (UK time) on

5 January 2011. Regrettably, we are unable to accept any

late applications.

  

For any enquires please contact Professor Janet Hunter, Head of Department, at [j.e.h...@lse.ac.uk]().

  

  

Website: <http://www2.lse.ac.uk/intranet/LSEServices/divisionsAndDepartments/humanResources/joiningLSE/recruitingContracting/jobsAtLSE/Home.aspx>

Primary Category: Economic History / Studies

  

Secondary Categories: Social Sciences

  

Posting Date: 11/17/2010

Closing Date 02/15/2011

Position: Gender and Law, Assistant Professor, American University - Cairo

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

  

  

American University - Cairo

  

Assistant Professor for a joint position in Gender and Law

  

  

Institution Type: College / University

Location: Egypt

Position: Assistant Professor

  

  

Company Description:

  

Founded in 1919, AUC moved to a new 270-acre state-of-the-art campus in New Cairo in 2008. The University also operates in its historic downtown facilities, offering cultural events, graduate classes, and continuing education. Student housing is available in both downtown Zamalek and New Cairo. Among the premier universities in the region, AUC is Middle States accredited; its Engineering programs are accredited by ABET and the Management program is accredited by AACSB. AUC is an English-medium institution; eighty-five percent of the students are Egyptian and the rest include students from nearly ninety countries, principally from the Middle East, Africa and North America. Faculty salary and rank are based on qualifications and professional experience. All faculty receive generous benefits, from AUC tuition to access to research funding; expatriate faculty also receive relocation benefits including housing, annual home leave, and tuition assistance for school age children.

  

Job Description:

  

The Institute for Gender and Womens Studies and the Department of Law at the American University in Cairo invite applications for a joint entry-level appointment at the rank of Assistant Professor to begin fall 2011. The position requires an interdisciplinary research background in the general area of law and gender, with a geographical grounding in the Middle East / North Africa region and its diverse connections to South Asia and sub-Saharan Africa. The successful applicant will be expected to conduct and lead research relating to common areas of interest of the Institute and the Department. Research interests may include a focus on international governance; citizenship and the politics of membership; mobility, migration and borders; conflict and reconstitution of social orders; poverty, desires and rights. Primary teaching responsibilities will be divided equally between the graduate programs of the Institute for Gender and Womens Studies and the Department of Law. The successful candidate will be expected to contribute in particular to the teaching of graduate core courses in gender studies, such as Theorizing Gender, Approaches to Middle East/ North African Gender and Womens Studies, Gender and Feminist Research Methodologies, or Gender and Migration), as well as graduate courses in Feminist Legal Theory, Gender and Economic Rights, or Human Rights and Gender. Additional responsibilities include an active program of research and publications, and service to the Center/ Department and the University.

  

Requirements:

  

A PhD with an established background in interdisciplinary research in gender and law, is required at time of appointment. Teaching experience is preferred. Successful candidates should have an ongoing program of research and publication, as well as a demonstrated commitment to excellence in teaching.

  

Additional Information:

  

Tenure track position. Appointment begins September 2011.

  

Application Instructions:

  

All applicants must submit the following documents online: a) a current C.V.; b) a letter of interest; c) a completed Personal Information Form; d) a statement of teaching philosophy; e) a copy of a recently published article or manuscript chapter in progress; e) Please ask three referees familiar with your professional background to send reference letters directly to [gap...@aucegypt.edu]().

  

Note: Please remember your account login enables you to respond to AUC additional questions (if required).

  

  

Contact: Apply Here

  

Website: <http://www.Click2Apply.net/h2bxtb9>

Primary Category:

Secondary Categories: None

Posting Date: 11/17/2010

Closing Date 02/15/2011

Positions: Humanities (note fields in text), Provost's Postdoctoral Scholars Program in the Humanities, University of Southern California

  

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

  

University of Southern California

  

Provost's Postdoctoral Scholars Program in the Humanities

  

  

Institution Type: College / University

Location: California, United States

Position: Post-Doctoral Fellow

  

  

The University of Southern California invites applications for the Provost's Postdoctoral Scholars Program in the Humanities.

  

Appointments are for two years, with a start date of August 15, 2011. Scholars will teach three courses over four semesters, with one semester free for full-time research. They are expected to reside in the Los Angeles area during the academic year and to participate in the scholarly life of the host department and the university through seminars and other scholarly activities. The salary is $50,000 per year plus fringe benefits, with a research and travel account of $6,000 per year.

  

Candidates may choose one of the following programs as their proposed host department: American Studies, Art History ,Classics, Comparative Literature, Critical Studies (Cinema), East Asian Languages and Cultures, English, French, History, Linguistics, Musicology, Philosophy, Slavic Languages and Literatures, and Spanish and Portuguese.

  

Applicants will be evaluated based on their prior academic accomplishments, the significance and intellectual merit of the proposed project, and their potential to contribute to the intellectual life of their host department and the community of scholars at USC. Candidates must have received the Ph.D. no earlier than July 1, 2007 and must have the degree in hand by July 1, 2011. The program expects to make five to eight postdoctoral awards per year.

  

Application guidelines are available at the program website: <http://grad.usc.edu/postdocapp> .

  

Applications must be submitted online by February 1, 2011. Inquiries about the USC Provosts Postdoctoral Scholars Program in the Humanities should be directed to Vice Provost Sarah Pratt at [vp...@usc.edu]().

  

  

Contact: Sarah Pratt, Vice Provost for Graduate Studies

email: [vp...@usc.edu]().

  

Website: <http://grad.usc.edu/postdocapp>

Primary Category: Humanities

  

Secondary Categories: None

Posting Date: 11/17/2010

Closing Date 02/15/2011

7 Doctoral Research Grants and Postdoc Research Grant, the Bielefeld Graduate School in History and Sociology, Bielefed University

  

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

  

Doctoral Research Grants (7), 1 PostDoc Research Grant

  

Location: Germany

Fellowship Date: 2010-12-12 (in 27 days)

Date Submitted: 2010-11-11

Announcement ID: 180524

  

Supported by the Excellence Initiative, the Bielefeld Graduate School in History and Sociology has been established as a joint institution of the Department of History and the Department of Sociology at Bielefeld University. The Graduate School is offering with effect from 1 April 2011

  

7 Doctoral Research Grants

(reference number 2011-01)

  

for research projects with a theme chosen by the applicant. The doctoral grants will be awarded for two years. Subject to allowance, the BGHS may be able to offer grant holders to apply for a twelve months extension of their grants.

  

1 PostDoc Research Grant

(reference number 2011-02)

  

for research projects with interdisciplinary content and a theme chosen by the applicant. The PostDoc grant will be awarded for two years.

  

Requirements: Applications for all grants are invited from graduates who plan to acquire a doctoral degree with a clear historical or sociological focus or a PostDoc qualification with an interdisciplinary focus. The doctoral grants are offered within the framework of the International Doctoral Programme in History and the International Doctoral Programme in Sociology at Bielefeld University. Applicants for a doctoral grant should hold an excellent degree, applicants for a PostDoc grant an outstanding PhD degree in a humanities or social science subject, preferably history, sociology, social anthropology or political science.

  

Applications: Applicants are asked to submit a statement of motivation (max. 400 words), a proposal for a research project (max. 4,000 words), a CV, all degree documents and the names and addresses of two academic referees.

  

All applications should reach the Bielefeld Graduate School in History and Sociology online ([www.uni-bielefeld.de/bghs](http://www.uni-bielefeld.de/bghs)) by 12 December 2010. Please use the above mentioned website for details on the electronic application process. Please also note that the Graduate School will not consider applications sent by mail.

  

For more information on the Graduate Schools Programme please visit [www.uni-bielefeld.de/bghs](http://www.uni-bielefeld.de/bghs). If you have any questions, please contact the administrative office of the Bielefeld Graduate School in History and Sociology: [bg...@uni-bielefeld.de]().

  

  

Levke Harders

Bielefeld Graduate School in History and Sociology (BGHS)

Bielefeld University

P.O. Box 10 01 31

33501 Bielefeld

Germany

Tel: [+49 (0)521 106 6523](tel:+49%20521%201066523)

Email: [bg...@uni-bielefeld.de]()

Visit the website at <http://www.uni-bielefeld.de/bghs/>

