+++
title = "000 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2013-12-05, 10:05:04 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/dqMGxLt-9uM)]]



Dec 4, 2013

Respected Scholars, Namaskar!

First I thank Dr. Kayanraman for posting seals, and ancient scripts , names of kings and other relevant photos. It is step in the right direction by Dr. Kalyanramanin the direction of the ancient history of the lower part of the Middle-East. Here is my question.

South India had trade through Red sea with King Solomon around 950 BC. Indian Teak wood samples are found in the ancient buildings of the Middle-East.

After Alexander's visit to the Northwest India, Chandragupt took huge army from India to Afghanistan to rescue it from Seleucus Nicator. Alexander destroyed Persian Empire bur before in there were inscriptions of Persian kings in Persia.

Am I to understand neither Chandragupta or his ministers reaching Afghanistan nor South Indian naval captains taking their ships through Red Sea to the Jewish kingdom interested to look at the scripts used by these Middle-East countries?

To the best of my knowledge we find inscriptions of the ancient India only from the time of King Ashok grandson of Chandragupta.

And how much controversy is there about the origin of Brahmi. And we keep talking undeciphered Indus script or Harappan script. If foreigners promote their own theories, let them do it. But we are not doing our own research.

How many times I told scholars on this list to go to libraries, open books Persian Empire and prove that I am wrong about my postings three years ago on BVP. Not a single one wrote about it in reply.

  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**How Cruise Lines Fill All Those Unsold Cabins?**  
(HINT: You will want to book a cruise after you read this...)  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/52a002c96b4122c9665fst04vuc)[LifestyleJournal.com](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/52a002c96b4122c9665fst04vuc)

