+++
title = "000 gira...@juno.com"

+++
[[gira...@juno.com	2009-11-22, 10:25:59 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/ngiZ7XjrDuQ)]]



November 21, 2009

Respected Scholars, Namaskar!



**Nothing special about Sanskrit!**



I am thankful to Dr. Korad, Dr. Bhat and Dr. D. Bhattacharya for explaining many questions I raised in my posting of Nov. 14.



Dr. S. Korad, Quote, \< Sanskrit is unique in the sense that it is the only language that is associated with Dharma (that is why it is carefully preserved and became the only language that fits computers), i.e. if we employ right Shabdas we get Dharma that leads to Moksha and abuse of language would lead to Adharma>



Preservation of Vedas sound by sound is appreciated all over the world. It is also true that the grammar of Sanskrit is highly systematic relative to grammars of other languages of the world. However Sanskrit is one of the languages of the Indo-European language family and it does not carry any special spiritual significance other than it was used to discuss the religious and philosophical doctrines in ancient India. It was also used to compose treatises on sciences like astronomy, mathematics, metallurgy. So there are thousands of secular words in Sanskrit which have nothing to do with Dharma and Adharma. If one studies Dharma shastra composed in Sanskrit, then he feels that it is unique for that branch. Western scholars and many scholars from Indian universities have accepted demoted position of Sanskrit as one of the languages of the world. If one attaches a special position to Sanskrit, it is his religious faith unless he proves otherwise.



Digital computers do not understand meanings of words of any language. They are rule based machines and hence suitable within limits of making use of rule based grammar and syntax (that too simple syntax) for word processing. This use of Sanskrit on digital machines has nothing to do with Dharma, Adharma and Moksha.



Instead of jumping to the intangible higher level of consciousness, one can say using the source-filter theory of speech production, that Paraa is like pumping of lungs to push air upwards, Pashyantee, is pulses of sounds generated by vocal chords of glottis, Madhyamaa is the modulation done by mouth cavity and its organs like tongue, teeth etc enhancing certain frequencies relative to others (filtering) and Vaikharee coming out of lips. This explains the speech production of limited number of sounds generated by human vocal tract.



Recently Supreme Court judge Katju mentioned that use of Sanskrit in Mantra shastra was five percent while use in other secular subjects was much higher. Sanskrit words secular or religious and their meanings were debated in ancient India for hundreds of years. Such discussions were also held in the western linguistics. Few western researchers tried to decode meanings of English letter-sounds on trial and error basis. For example-The cluster-sound /gl/ in words glow, glitter, glare meant ‘something shiny”. However it immediately failed in words glue, gloom. They gave up on research of language specific phonetic symbolism. Then they tried universal phonetic symbolism. That also failed. Finally Westerners came to the conclusion that articulated sounds do not carry semantic significance. They (about 60 in number) are only for differentiation.



Interesting to note that in Indian Sanskrit linguistic discussions one also comes across something like VarNavaada. However this term is understood differently by various scholars. Those who questioned the high status of Vedas say VarNas (syllables) are Anitya. Others supporting apourushatva of Vedas say Dhavani is Anitya but VarNas (syllables) are Nitya.



Other set of Indian scholars understood VarNavaada meant Sanskrit syllables carry fixed meanings. This is refuted with example of Yoopa, Koopa, and Roopa where the segment “-oopa” has no fixed meaning in all three words.



Now you tell me what is special about Sanskrit except her grammar which is in my opinion is jewelery of the language. The soul of language is in words and their Abhidhaa meanings. A beautiful lady looks beautiful due to her beautiful body and face no matter what jewelery she uses.



In my opinion there is nothing special about Sanskrit. Meanings of her words are conventional like any other language. Conventional means if we call chair a table and table a chair, it is ok as long as everybody agrees.



There is one good point about Sanskrit. Her VarNamaalaa. The letters of Sanskrit VarNamaalaa are arranged in a kind of periodic table of articulated sounds based upon their acoustic properties. There exists possibility of periodic systematic semantic structure (letter-sound meaning relationship) underlying periodic acoustic properties of syllables (or phonemes like /k/. /kh/, /g/ etc) of Sanskrit VarNamaalaa. In other words such search will not be random as the westerners undertook and failed but based upon tangible periodic acoustic properties. The advantage in this method is that after few initial decoding efforts, the rest will rapidly fall in right places just like new chemical elements were discovered once the periodic nature was understood.



In short if two letter-sounds are close to each other in acoustic space (like /k/ and /kh/), then they could also be close to each other in semantic space. Such research if undertaken may bring out new dimension of Sanskrit hereto unknown. To the best of my knowledge no such efforts were undertaken by any Sanskrit scholar in the history of thousands of years although there was a large number of phoneticians in ancient India with many books on Shikshaa shastra (phonetics).

So I repeat there is nothing special in Sanskrit unless one proves otherwise. Please pardon me for a long posting. N.R.Joshi.

  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[Diet Help  
Cheap Diet Help Tips. Click here.](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL2142/c?cp=y6MMN2GcKtQxLCDBegD2UAAAJ1DzphoupZ8w6IeWaVuMIhzHAAYAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAADNAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAYQAAAAAA=)  

