+++
title = "012 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2017-10-23, 15:22:09 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/UUc_aoFP-5U)]]



Namaste



On Achyut Karve\< In Marathi \> and KSK \< Just a quick guess> and Marcius \< So the question remains open - should the main form be vacanīya instead of vācanīya or are both possible and there should be no preference? vācanīya vs. vacanīya. \>



1. May be one look at the two Samskruth terms here coming out of the common root ‘वच ‘ and then the next level derivation with appropriate pratyaya, leading to specific intention communication :



वच (Root) à वचन (Krit First derivative) à वचनीय ( Second derivative)



वच à वचन (First derivative) à वाचन (Second Derivative) à
वाचनीय ( Third derivative).



Each stage of pratyaya processing adds new flavors of meaning and competence (Yogyataa – Saamarthya – Vivakshaa).



A comparable usage to explore is with root ‘yaj’ is yajana –yaajana :: yajaneeya - yaajaneeya ; with ‘bhoo’- bhavana- bhaavana :: bhavaneeyam – bhaavaneeyam.



2. The precision, aesthetic sensitivity arising out of technicality of Samskruth ‘pratyaya’ processing’s is masked /lost / ignored/ can not be properly represented in translation (= non translatable) in the ‘Prakrut / Apabhramsha/ languages’ and consequent in translations.



3. The two ‘ padas’ \< वचनीय - वाचनीय \> - are uniquely crafted with specific intentional communication to be articulated. If the poet used the term ‘ वचनीय’- instead of other term वाचनीय, then the poets intention is clear. There is nothing open ( in the literal sense) to construct the meaning ; there is no option for critic to exercise preference to construct –reconstruct and align the poets intention ; both meanings may not be/ are not possible in the primary literal ( abhidaa- lakshanaa ) constructions, unless one resorts to the technicality of grammar, when the result will be two different sentences with different communication (Vakya –Bheda). 

4. Can we contemplate on the Time-line of usage of the two terms and related grammar rules , where Panini comes in between ! Valmiki and Bharavi ? So what rule base did Valmiki use to fine tune the Samkruth language expression so precisely, the rule base which was transmitted and inherited by Panini with a time gap of at least some thousand plus human years ?



How would social linguists, indologists, anthropologists one explain the ‘Structural, linguistic integrity and grammar rule base surviving over such long time in human society?’ beyond the argument of a
‘Scholarly freezed Classical language model’? And this is fig leaf of argument, if one positions Mahabharata as a ‘ Ever expanding Sanskrit Social Narrative (Suta Puranika – Vaishampayana) , which comes in between Ramayana ( Valmiki) and Panini (Grammarian) ?



Is there a necessity to recall that ‘Valmiki’s work was in society (as Kavya – Sung) , in royal courts and religious places, along with Mahabharata in the same way, without a grammarian or other poets tampering with it? If one really starts looking at Mahabharata , one may find more illustrations for beauties of Samskruth language expressions.



 It may be worth pondering on what rule base of Samskrutham was used by Valmiki and Vyasa which got inherited to Panini, separated in historic time by at least a thousand years each ? ! which later writers like Kalidasa and Bharavi follow meticulously.



Regards

BVK Sastry



