+++
title = "000 Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma"

+++
[[Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma	2010-03-04, 06:32:40 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/J3v7fr1sa5o)]]



Namaste.  
Esteemed Scholar-Members,  
Some of you must have participated in the World Conferences  
held abroad by one of the Japanese Universities in the recent  
past. The Rashtriya Sanskrit Samsthan website has published  
the FIRST CIRCULAR(General Information) regarding the World  
Conference 2012, to be held in BhArat.  
  
The First Circular is attached herewith.  
  
In this connection I would request all to search and make available  
the Abstracts/Papers presented/published in the earlier conferences,  
to this Group for the benefit of those who want to study them.  
  
The Japanese Professor, whoever it be, had rejected a Research  
Paper of crucial content simply stating that "Your paper is rejected"  
without giving any observations. It was sent well in advance for  
scrutiny. SANSKRIT AS SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH TOOL is an  
area hitherto unexplored. Among the Vedangas four appear to be  
of linguistic in approach and content whereas Shiksha, Vyakaranam,  
Niruktam and Chandas are NOT merely linguistic disciplines.  
  
"Sanskrit and Surgey" holds a beacon light to the fact that Shiksha  
can work at different levels and serve as physiological corrective.  
Vyakaranam contains yet-to-be-decoded secrets of cosmology  
and Psycho-Botanical truths(Psycho-Botany is a young discipline  
of recent origin which deals with the human mind and plant interactions)  
wherein lies the roots of Ethno-Botany.  
  
NanAda Dhhakkam Nava-pancha-vAram is NOT a myth.  
Sri Chakram is embedded in the Maheshwara Sutras.  
The BijAksharas of PANCHA MAHABHUTAS are also  
embedded. Hence 9+5. VyAkaranam and AvyAkaranm  
of the Prapancham(Panjeekaranam and its reversal) are  
delineated.  
  
My Paper on Sanskrit as Research Tool is available in the FILES section  
of this Group.  
( <http://bvparishat.googlegroups.com/web/RFFull+Paper+KU+jp.pdf?hl=en-GB&gda=otB8r0oAAAAH_T9Tl-7gWkcm3B4GPQ-QWtG_wKSyvL_gyBJ_xxCy6FWmraakAssnA1-afy9mKS6mwwmmjY8lLEkm5GsdcWpfE8916YcVGpycjMhteznsbw>)  
  
TAPAH is not heating up or thinking. It is acceleration of the brain centres  
to heighten the capabilities of "spiritual comprehension" or extended  
perceptions of the cosmic mind(divyam dadAmi tE chakshuh).  
  
UpAsanA empowered anthakaranam alone can endorse these intuitions.  
NOT and NEVER by the prejudiced doyens of IT Market-Sanskrit.  
  
Pranams.  
  
  
  
  
--  
Aangirasa/Dr.Ramakrishna Sharma. M.A.,Ph.D.(Eng.Lit.),Ph.D.(Sanskrit.).  

