+++
title = "000 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2015-04-15, 02:56:58 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/Om0JZaW6_wk)]]



April 14, 2015



Dear Prof M. Deshpande.



Thanks for replying to my query on -taa and -tva meanings. I appreciated it. NRJOSHI



------------------------------------------------------------------

  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: Madhav Deshpande \<[mmd...@umich.edu]()\>  
To: "[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()" \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Jaatishaktivaada (Korada)  
Date: Sat, 11 Apr 2015 17:34:52 -0400  
  

Dear Dr. Joshi,



  As far as the derivational meaning of words ending in -tva or -tā, they have exactly the same meaning. Kātyāyana's Vārttika (yasya hi guṇasya bhāvāt dravye śabdaniveśas tasyābhidhāne tva-talau) says that the endings -tva and tal (= tā) are added to a word to express that quality the presence of which in an object allows us to use that word to refer to that object. So vṛkṣatva and vṛkṣatā refer to that same quality the possession of which by an object allows us to use the word vṛkṣa to refer to it. Now in actual usage of Sanskrit, the frequencies of -tva, -tā and -ya formations (e.g. samatva, samatā and sāmya) differ from word to word, and they further change in frequency and even meaning in modern languages. But these formations are derivationally identical in meaning.



Madhav Deshpande

Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA

  

On Sat, Apr 11, 2015 at 5:08 PM, N.R.Joshi \<[gira...@juno.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> > April 111, 2015 >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Referring to Prof Korada recent posting. >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Vriksha =tree. What is meant by Vrikshataa? Vrikshatva perhaps means > treeness. >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Ghana = dense. Ghanataa = density But what is meant by Ghanatva? I > can measure Ghanataa of an object. >
> 
> > 
> > How to measure Ghanatva. >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Go= cow. Gotva =cowness but could there be Gotaa like Vrikshataa? and > what would be its meaning? >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Sama = equal, Samataa = equality but could there by samatva = > equalness. What is difference between samataa, saamya and samatva? >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Thanks. N.R.Joshi >
> 
> >   
>   
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
> [**What's your flood risk?**  
> Find flood maps, interactive tools, FAQs, and agents in your area.  
> ](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/55298d43b709ed4360b7st01vuc)[floodsmart.gov](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/55298d43b709ed4360b7st01vuc) >
> 
> > --  
> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
> ---  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.  

  
  



--  

Madhav M. Deshpande  
Professor of Sanskrit and Linguistics  
Department of Asian Languages and Cultures  
202 South Thayer Street, Suite 6111  
The University of Michigan  
Ann Arbor, MI 48104-1608, USA



--  
निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
---  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**Old School Yearbook Pics**  
View Class Yearbooks Online Free. Search by School & Year. Look Now!  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/552d86088f11c6085e01st02vuc)[classmates.com](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/552d86088f11c6085e01st02vuc)

