+++
title = "000 R. Narayana iyengar"

+++
[[R. Narayana iyengar	2013-03-15, 07:46:03 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/wJhEMb9TJWI)]]



Dear Dr. Joshi,

I understand your feelings but do not share your pessimism. The tilt towards Astronomy in the program is perhaps deliberate since, large number of texts are available for study. I am forwarding your mail to Sri Danino in case he has something to say on the points you have raised. Indeed music, metallurgy, medicine, architecture, logic,...are all scientific topics the history of which is important to present and future Indian academics. There have been several meets on archaeo-metallurgy some of which I have attended. The work done by DP Agarwal, Anantharaman, Bala of IITK are well known to be restated. I had myself organized a talk by BV Subbarayappa with focus on 'Tin Extraction'. I understand that there are not many Sanskrit texts directly on Metallurgy; the history is reconstructed from the field.

  

As a 'Desi' academic having interacted with a variety of scientists within India, let me assure you there will be no name calling in serious scholarly deliberations, (including MB dating!). The missing link is the participation by traditional Sanskrit scholars and students. They seem to be for the present at least bogged down by the purity of ' madhyama & vaikhari words' as defined by ancients rather than by the ' pashyanti-perceptions' continuously flowing into the dynamic Indian culture.

  

Naturally there will be personal perceptions of deeply concerned Sanskritist scientists like you. On the other hand, the ground realities within India have to be factored in academic activities concerning institutions of higher learning such as IITs. History of Mathematics (Astronomy) is one such noncontroversial topic and IIT-Gn has done well to discuss how 'history of Indian science' could be relevant to modern India. In my personal view the discontinuity in the intellectual discourse, of the past \~200 years, across the breadth and depth of India has to be bridged by 'Desis' without bothering about what the 'Videshis (incl. NRIs)' say. I wish our Sanskrit Universities start serious original activity in recapturing the tradition of Mathematics, intertwining with Chandas, Astronomy, Logic and other subjects, without hankering after the money making "Phala-jyotisha".

  

Thanks

  

RNI

  

  

  
  

On Fri, Mar 15, 2013 at 12:15 AM, N.R.Joshi \<[gira...@juno.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> > March 14,2013 >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Respected Scholars and Organizers of History of Indian Sciences >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > This seminar is tilted towards astronomy and mathematics. Ancient > India was world famous for its metallurgy, science of sound and music > and other sciences. I am watching the astronomers' posting on this > list from many years. Indian astronomers found one thing-how to > quarrel with each others on the interpretation of Sanskrit verses > describing some ancient astronomy from ancient books. We do not get > anything from their quarrel. But when I explain the specialty of the > ancient Indian steel, there is no quarrel because it is all science. > When Indian astronomers going to talk science in a language of other > scientists? Or do they continue in name calling? Thanks. N.R. Joshi. >
> 
> > 
> >   
>   
> ---------- Original Message ----------  
> From: "R. Narayana iyengar" \<[narayana...@gmail.com]()\>  
> To: [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
> Subject: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Re: Workshop on History of Indian > Science at IIT Gn, March 16-17  
> Date: Tue, 12 Mar 2013 13:02:36 +0530  
>   
> The final program of the workshop to be held this weekend at IIT > Gandhinagar is attached for information. >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > RN Iyengar  
>   
> > 
> > On Wed, Feb 20, 2013 at 5:18 PM, R. Narayana iyengar > \<[narayana...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  
> > > On behalf of my friend Sri Michel Danino, I am forwarding the > > following information. Research scholars and Ph.D candidates of > > Sanskrit Universities interested in scientific literature in > > Sanskrit would surely benefit by this program. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > RNI > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > >   
> >   
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > >  > style="border:none;border-top:solid #b5c4df 1.0pt;padding:3.0pt 0cm 0cm 0cm"> > > > > Dear friends, > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > As you will see from the announcement below, we will be conducting > > at IIT Gandhinagar a two-day workshop on the history of science in > > India. Some of our best scholars in the field will address the > > audience and we are sure this is going to be an intellectual feast. > > > > 
> > > > Please consider registering to attend the course (registration is > > free). If you are outside Ahmedabad / Gandhinagar, IIT Gn will take > > care of your accommodation (but please send us your requirement well > > in advance). > > > > 
> > > > We request you to kindly **circulate this information among your > > friends / colleagues / students** who may be interested in this > > event. Also, you may please take a printout of the attached poster > > (A-4 size) and have it displayed in your institution. > > > > 
> > > > We look forward to your presence at the workshop. > > > > 
> > > > Best regards, > > > > 
> > > > Michel > > > > 
> > > > =========================== > > > > Michel Danino, > > > > Guest Professor, IIT Gandhinagar, > > > > 80 Swarnambika Layout > > > > Ramnagar > > > > COIMBATORE - 641 009 > > > > (Tamil Nadu) India > > > > Tel.: 91-422-6451096 / [9843056120](tel:(984)%20305-6120) > > > > [michel...@gmail.com]() > > > > [michel...@iitgn.ac.in]() > > > > =========================== > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > ------------------------------------------------------------------------ > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Workshop on > > > > **Promoting History of Science in India** > > > > IIT Gandhinagar \| 16–17 March 2013 > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > The history of science and technology acts as a natural bridge > > between humanities and sciences. A respected academic discipline in > > the West, it has all but disappeared from India, which is > > regrettable in view of our rich scientific and technological > > heritage. As a result, the number of scholars working in the field > > has been shrinking, while popular demand for genuine information on > > India’s past scientific and technological achievements has been > > rising. > > > > In this context, IIT Gandhinagar is planning a two-day workshop on > > **Promoting History of Science in India** on 16-17 March, 2013. The > > workshop will have leading scholars present their current research > > and findings, so as to produce an authentic picture of scientific > > advances in pre-modern India, especially in the fields of > > mathematics and astronomy. Presentations will include not only > > specific advances or breakthroughs, but also the epistemology and > > cultural context behind them. This workshop promises to be an > > eye-opener to students of science as well as humanities. > > > > 
> > > > **Speakers** > > > > Eminent scientist **Prof. Roddam Narasimha**, Jawaharlal Nehru > > Centre for Advanced Scientific Research, will deliver the keynote > > address. Other speakers include: > > > > **Dr. M.D. Srinivas** \| Centre for Policy Studies, Chennai > > > > **Dr. R.N. Iyengar **\| Jain University, Bangalore > > > > **Prof. M.S. Sriram **\| Madras University > > > > **Dr. K. Ramasubramanian** \| IIT Bombay > > > > **Dr. R. Sridharan** \| Chennai Mathematical Institute > > > > **Prof. S.G. Dani** \| Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, > > Mumbai > > > > **Dr. S. Balachandra Rao** \| Gandhi Centre for Science and Human > > Values, Bangalore > > > > **Dr. Amartya Kumar Dutta** \| Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata > > > > **Prof. V. Madhukar Mallayya** \| Mar Ivanios College, Trivandrum > > > > **Dr. Shailesh Shirali** \| Rishi Valley School, Andhra Pradesh. > > > > 
> > > > **Registration ** > > > > Registrations will be accepted on first-come, first-served basis. > > **[Please click here to register > > online](https://docs.google.com/a/iitgn.ac.in/spreadsheet/viewform?formkey=dDBKcHJBVFpWUlA2bF9YVVZKaEFHUlE6MQ#gid=0)**. > > > > 
> > > > **Contact** > > > > Jaison A Manjaly \| [jman...@iitgn.ac.in]() > > > > Michel Danino \| [michel...@iitgn.ac.in]() > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > >   
> >   
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > --  
> > > > 
> > > > R.N.Iyengar > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Director, Centre for Disaster Mitigation > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Jain University, Bangalore-Kanakapura Road > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Jakkasandra 562112 > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Ph:080-27577203 > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > --  
> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
> to subscribe go to the link below and put a request  
> <https://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat/subscribe>  
> To unsubscribe from this group, send email to  
> [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]()  
>   
> ---  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> Visit this group at > <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat?hl=en>.  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/groups/opt_out>.  
>   
> 
> >   
>   
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
> [**How to Sleep Like a Rock**  
> Obey this one natural trick to fall asleep and stay asleep all > night.  
> ](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/51421b245d59a1b241224st02vuc)[peaklife.com](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/51421b245d59a1b241224st02vuc) >
> 

  

