+++
title = "002 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2013-03-15, 19:19:28 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/wJhEMb9TJWI)]]



Dear Prof RN Iyengar,

  

Thanks for your sincere comments.

  
  

\>\>\>\>

I understand your feelings but do not share your pessimism.  

\<\<\<\<\<  

  

Scientists are fundamentally trained to ask "Negative Questions" to prove or disprove the "hypothesis" under examination. IMO - Our tradition is no different while using this approach of "neti - neti" to find the truth.

  

It needs to be noted that "Optimists" and "Pessimists" are both necessary for the advancement of the society from the humanistic perspective. This becomes clear from the following illustration:

  

When "Optimists" invented the Aeroplane; "Pessimists" invented the "Para-shoot".  

  

\>\>\>I wish our Sanskrit Universities start serious original activity in recapturing the tradition of Mathematics, intertwining with Chandas, Astronomy, \<\<\<\<

  

I think it is up to the individual scholars to champion this cause.
After-all, it the individual professor who bring the Universities to limelight. IMO - it is unfortunate that Sanskirt scholars have no desire to go beyond the "tri-Muni" visualization and remain attached to "the Boat" (Sanskrit Grammar) which is supposed to take them to the other side. Once we reach the other side, one is supposed to get out of the boat and use the knowledge delivered from the "words", "mantra's", .... etc.  

  

Again, I thank you for you sincere observation about the Phala-Jotiysha nonsense.  

  

I would highly appreciate if you you post the highlights and new information discussed during the workshop.  

  

Best Rgds

  

Dr. Yadu  

