+++
title = "027 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2016-12-14, 22:11:25 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/IfRNs6AOKDQ)]]



Namaste Ravindranath

  

I totally agree with your statement.  

  

Having said that, can you please tell me where the CORE concept of YOGA does not apply to real life. Actually explanation provided by Dr Bhat and BVK do lead into that direction.

  

Regardless of street (wherever location may be) it always has "forks" that lead often in opposite directions. It is up to the individual to choose the path that is suitable for the individual, regardless of color, creed, subject-matter, discipline, belief, religion, country they reside in ......  

  

Classical text and interpretations provides us with tools that can possibly help us in deciding what direction "YOU (the individual)" should take at a given crossroads. That is why the term ***शिष्टस्य शासनम् अनुशासनम् इत्यर्थः।*** shiShThasya is incorporated in the explanation. Elders who placed the sign boards on various crossroads and forks for future generations.

  

When one gets a Ph.D. (Doctorate in Philosophy) it is just a training that helps the student prepare the students how to tackle the problems.
This methodology is applicable to unraveling issues in may areas of the chosen discipline. As a scientist for over 45 years I do not recall ever using the exact same thing that I wrote my Ph.D. desertation, however, the systematic logical approach that I learned during the period as a student has always served me as a Master Staff.  

  

Rgds,  

  

Dr Yadu  

  

>  style="font-family:bookman old style,new york,times,serif;font-size:16px"> >
>  style="font-family:HelveticaNeue,Helvetica Neue,Helvetica,Arial,Lucida Grande,sans-serif;font-size:16px"> >
> 
> > ------------------------------------------------------------------------ >
> **From:** "[ravi...@gmail.com]()" \<[ravi...@gmail.com]()\>  
> **To:** Nagaraj Paturi \<[nagara...@gmail.com]()\>; > "[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()" \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
> **Sent:** Tuesday, December 13, 2016 11:30 PM  
> **Subject:** RE: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Clarification  
> > 
> > 
> > 



