+++
title = "001 Arun"

+++
[[Arun	2011-01-17, 09:00:52 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/xbQJAl3UvTo)]]



Every language in world has words with multiple meanings which change  
as per context. There are 4 sources and 7 samsthas of words. Literary  
meanings are loosely defined and have various technical meanings as  
per subjects of science & Technology. Gita (15/17) has called them as  
Loka (literary) and Veda (Technical) languages. Whenever any new  
technique such as computer comes up, words are attributed new  
meanings, similar to earlier meanings. When the same is done in  
sanskrit or any language other than English. one should not object. In  
fact, all the words of vedas even in literary sense have adhidaivika/  
adhyatmika meanings which were parallel to original adhibhautika  
meanings. A complete subject of Nirukta is devoted to that. Definition  
of technical terms depends on our understanding of technical subjects.  
Most of our texts of Ayurveda and astronomy are not fully explained. I  
had to face a great difficulty in mathematical commentary on 'Sidhanta-  
Darpana'. Majority of the vital points have not been explained in any  
commentary from 1865 Harvard edition till 1952-56 commentaries by K.S.  
Shukla of Lucknow University Maths Deptt or By Kuppana Shastri/K.V.  
Sarma. Mathematical methods have just been assumed to be guess work  
following a chance remark of the greatest mathematicians Van der  
Waerden/Neugebauer. Measures of galaxy etc. have not even been  
translated and with a remark that Hindus have penchant for large  
numbers. There was a genuine difficulty that even after Einstein had  
given his theories of Relativity in 1905/1912, measure of galaxy was  
not known. First real estimate was done by Hubble in 1928-2 years  
after Dirac's Relativistic Quantum Theory in 1926. Realistic measures  
started in 1950 and they are still under revision. Present softwares  
of calender by NASA are based on Formula of Simon & Newcomb in 1903.  
At that time, nearest star was estimated to be 8000 AU ( 1 AU =  
distance of sun = 150 million Kms). This has been refuted as erroneous  
in Indian texts-as there will be no night if stars are so near. Real  
value is about 3,80,000. Indian texts have given correct measures of  
distances of Agastya, yama etc as well as size of galaxy. Elliptical  
orbit of planets was not explained by any commentator. I had to revise  
definitions of about 300 technical words-many of them tentative. Some  
new meanings of 'Samvatsara', yojana and yugas have come to my notice  
later and some more revisions are due. 3 of measures of solar system  
explained in 2001 were not known in modern astronomy then. 2 of them  
were found in 2007 Uranus prob of NASA.  
Similar problems are in Ayurveda. More than half is still unexplained-  
Arun  

î—“

\> $1\* Buys $50,000 Life Insurance. Adults or Children. No Medical Exam.<http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3141/4d31e4971bc41ca70b7st01vuc>

