+++
title = "007 Krishna K"

+++
[[Krishna K	2009-09-03, 17:07:43 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/fmrhy82xA0A)]]



2009/9/2 hn bhat \<[hnbh...@gmail.com]()\>:

î—“

There is mention of shunaHshepa and his meeting Vishvamitra in  
Aitareya Brahmana (33rd adhyAya). The story is a mix of two stories  
mentioned above. The king is Harishchandra instead of Ambarisha, and  
he promises to perform a sacrifice for varuNa if he is granted a son  
\[This section has the line - na aputrasya loko.asti, a 'samAkhyA  
vAkya' of the more popular 'aputrasya gatirnAsti'\]. Then on, varuNa  
keeps pestering him to perform the sacrifice with the very son as the  
yajna-pashu. The king postpones the event on different pretexts at  
different times (such as 'the pashu needs to have teeth, should become  
a proper kShatriya). When the time comes, the son fleeds to the  
forest, and varuNa enters Harishchandra (probably the jalodara). His  
son is goaded by Indra to go back, and finally shunahshepa is found.  
Rest of story remains same.

However, an important difference, or so it appears, is that both  
Harishchandra and varuNa (and vashiShTha and other officiators of the  
sacrifice) knew that it was a human being sacrifced. In fact, when  
Harishchandra asks Varuna if a shunahshepa can be offered, varuNa's  
reply: tatheti, bhUyan vai brAhmaNaH kShatriyAditi varuNa uvAca -  
is indicative that they were very well aware it is a human sacrifice.  
Also the lines 'tam etam abhiShecanIye puruSham pashum Alebhe' makes  
it clear.

I did some search on the word 'puruShamedh' in my files (which as  
ITRANSized version of the texts at TITUS) and found references in:

1\. vaitanasUtra: dvyaho ashvamedhasya tryahaH puruShamedhasya  
sarvamedhaH puruShamedhavat... this passage deals with the sacrifices  
that kShatriya has to do.

2\. Agniveshya grihyasuutra (2nd adhyAya): rAjasUyaM pashubandhA  
iShTayo nakShatreShTayo vA divashshyenayo.apAghAH sAtrAyaNa upahomAH  
sUktAnyaupAnuvAkyAyAjya \_\_ashvamedhapuruShamedhasautrAmaNyacchidrANi\_\_  
pashuhautram upaniShada iti sabrAhmaNAni sAnubrAhmaNAni vaishvadevAni

3\. baudhAyana grihyasutra 3.1 (text same as above).

4\. baudhAyana shrautasUtra (194th version in Kashikar edn): atha  
rAjayaj\~nAH, rAjasUyo.ashvamedhaH puruShamedhaH sarvamedhaH  
somasavaH pRthisavo mRtyusavaH kAnAndhayaj\~naH shunaskarNayaj\~na iti  
ca \|

5\. Multiple references in Shatapatha Brahmana. too many to list but  
this sure is an interesting and relevant one (14.6.2.1), atha  
yasmAtpuruShamedho nAma, ime vai lokAH pUrayameva puruSho yo.ayam  
pavate so.asyAm puri shete tasmAtpuruShastasya yadeShu lokeShvannaM  
tadasyAnnam medhastadyadasyaitadannam medhastasmAtpuruShamedho.atho  
yadasminmedhyAnpuruShAnAlabhate tasmAdveva puruShamedhaH. The previous  
section starts with 'atha adhyAtmaM' so this could just be the  
adhyatmic meaning of puruShamedhas.

All in all, while the purpose of shunaHshepa episode can be seen as  
extolling shunaHshepa and Vishvamitra, the other sutras seem to enjoin  
one such sacrifice on a King. What exactly is the nature of this  
puruShamedha, still remains a mystery within the known texts (or  
atleast the ones that I have and superficially searched within).

Regards,  
Krishna  

