+++
title = "016 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-07-30, 16:01:59 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/v9ExizF-6pI)]]



Namaste



On \< **The translation reported is of Marathi to English, and using Google Translator. It has nothing to do with Computational Sanskrit Linguists ! **\> ****



There seems to be a different understanding in the relation of MT and Computational (Sanskrit) Linguistics. Computational Sanskrit Linguistics is a sub section under the broad scope f Computational linguistics, unless there has been some extraordinary developments to make it a independent discipline.



Computational Sanskrit Linguistics got promoted officially at India,
at least six years, before Google has gone in for Patent application on this theme. How much of CSL program details have gone in to Google Patent application is unknown.



Please explore the following links also.



<https://www.languageconnections.com/blog/computational-linguistics-a-rise-in-machine-translation/>
: : Computational linguistics is a growing field at the intersection of linguistics and computer science. A focus is placed on analyzing the mathematical and structural properties of language, with many computational linguists focused on the development of cognitive models that represent the way language learning takes place in humans. The goal of this focus is to improve automatic translations and to make interactions between humans and computers more seamless. Strides towards effective machine translation have been made recently; **Google’s June 2016 patent application for neural network machine learning can be applied to advanced machine translation that will “learn” through trial and error in a way that attempts to mimic human language acquisition. Giving computers the power of language will advance the quality of interaction between man and machine, which many hope will one day be seamless.**





<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Machine_translation> : : Machine translation, sometimes referred to by the abbreviation MT (not to be confused with computer-aided translation, machine-aided human translation (MAHT) or interactive translation) is a sub-field of computational linguistics that investigates the use of software to translate text or speech from one language to another.



[ocw.unimas.my/pluginfile.php/571/mod_resource/content/0/CL-Machine%20Translation.pdf](http://ocw.unimas.my/pluginfile.php/571/mod_resource/content/0/CL-Machine%20Translation.pdf)
: - Machine Translation and Computational Linguistics are twined disciplines.



[citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.129.3541&rep=rep1&type=pdf](http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.129.3541&rep=rep1&type=pdf)
:



<https://www1.essex.ac.uk/linguistics/external/clmt/other_sites/index_11.html> : Computational Linguistics and Machine Translation



Regards



BVK Sastry



**From:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() \[mailto:[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\] **On Behalf Of** Amba Kulkarni  
**Sent:** Thursday, 26 July, 2018 11:59 AM  
**To:** bvparishat  
**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} A Marathi Abhanga



On 26 July 2018 at 11:55, Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL) \<[sastr...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:

Namaste Krishna Kashyap , Madhav Deshpande ji

1**. Thanks Krishna Kashyap**, for sharing the ‘ Google Translation’ of ‘ Contemporary Marathi Abhang’. Your experience is not a isolated one. Many have the same challenge.

 This is a good illustration for ‘ Computational Sanskrit Linguists, Machine Translation Experts, AI teams’ to examine carefully on where ‘ Techno-linguist programmers’ creating dictionaries and ‘ Rules for translation’ need to be revisited !

**The translation reported is of Marathi to English, and using Google Translator. It has nothing to do with Computational Sanskrit Linguists !**



-- Amba Kulkarni

> 
> > 
> > 2. **May I request Prof. Deshpande** to provide his own ‘English > translation of his composition’. This provides two benefits. (a) > Authors intention in the abhnag ( b) A reference to check how far > and by how much of deviation the Google Machine translation takes > the reader ! >
> Regards >
> BVK Sastry >
> 
> > 



