+++
title = "019 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-08-16, 10:22:50 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/v9ExizF-6pI)]]



Namaste Amba ji



1. Thanks for clarifying the usage of the name for the discipline of study as ‘ Sanskrit Computational Linguistics ‘ and how this ‘ discipline’ is having a unique flavor and focus (1-a) using the perspective of ‘Paninian Grammar Traditions and Texts and (1-b) ‘
Linguistic Theories on Philosophy of (Sanskrit ) Language, Meaning Comprehension to distinguish it from ‘ Computational Linguistics’.



 The work done so far in Sanskrit Computational Linguistics is no doubt valuable, as it has ( i) Brought together scholars of two disciplines : Computer Professionals and Samskruth Language Specialists (ii) Sustained a focused Special interest in revisiting the classical heritage language of Bharath in a contemporary relevant way, beyond ‘ conversation focus’ to ‘ computation’.



 But the deeper issues in this exploration, having a larger impact of global nature, is on the questions like ‘ Future Of Sanskrit (- the language of cultural, spiritual and National Identity of India) in World Wide Web and its control. These are hidden in wraps. These have not been getting the right kind and amount of attention it deserves; and therefore, the program funding suffers a lot.



 Well, these are issues out of the scope on this forum for further elaboration and may need the attention of ‘Battle: (Swadesi) Sanskrit’ teams. 



**Simply put, Sanskrit cannot be force fitted in the name of a ‘ discipline’ to the Techno-model suited for roman script/ English language .**



2. Here below are my views, on the response post you have made.



 This is one of my special areas of research promoting ‘ L.T ( Language Technology/ bhashaa – Yantra- Vijnana) to LAT ( Language Appropriate Technology :: Bhashaa- anuguna – Tantra –vijnanam) .

 This, being a topic of special interest’, we can always discuss it off line and develop plans for collaborative work.





|                                                                                    |           |                  |                  | |------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------|------------------|------------------| |                                                                                   | Your Post | BVK Sastry Views | Focus and Reason | | Defining uniqueness of the discipline called - Sanskrit Computational Linguistics |           |                  |                  |

[TABLE]

[TABLE]





**Summing up, Keeping the emotions apart, one needs to ensure that ‘Sanskrit Computational Linguistics’ will not end up as another path for ‘ Language Colonization through Technology route’.**



--  

You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  

To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().



