+++
title = "006 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2015-09-07, 04:00:20 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/q6torIHr9Z4)]]



Respected Scholars,

  

To say the least, it does appear to be a Sad, Sad State of Affairs

  

I have attended many many SatyanaaraayaNa puujaa's is US where,  

  

a. sa\~Nkalpa was announced at the end of puujaa

  

b. ViShNuu's aavahanaa performed in the primary muurti in "ViShNuu's devaalaya". Is this not like trying to invite the host in his own home !?  

  

c. Reciting the daNDakaaraNye, narmadaa tiire ....etc

  

d. Recently, we have had extensive discussion pertaining to "Plagiarism, copyrights in early Samskrit studies"

  

  So, this existed and continues today as cited by Prof. Dipak Bhattacharya ................................. ?

e. We do not understand and have forgotten the meaning of Veda Mantraa's. When yaj\~na is not successful then conveniently place the blame on "mantra uccharaNaa" or his saadhanaa ...... etc.  

  

Now the general question to this list scholars is :

  

a. Is there any culture left in Indian subcontinent ?  



b. Whose responsibility should it be to rectify the current situation ?  

 Scholars in India or Western students making serious efforts to shed some light and/or try and comment on them ?

  

c. Statements like if someone has not learned Sanskrit in the traditional manner has no right to comment on shaastra always puzzle me.  

  

d. If grammar is the only thing then why did Shankaracharya loudly announces, "nahi nahi rakshati dukrinkaraNe?

  

I do not know whether ignoring the facts or current state of affairs is going to be of any help.

  

As a scientist, brought up in the family of Sanskrit scholars, I am convinced that **we cannot change that we cannot &/or will not acknowledge**.  

  

With best regards to all,

  

Dr Yadu  

  

  

>  style="font-family:HelveticaNeue,Helvetica Neue,Helvetica,Arial,Lucida Grande,sans-serif;font-size:12px"> >
>  style="font-family:HelveticaNeue,Helvetica Neue,Helvetica,Arial,Lucida Grande,sans-serif;font-size:16px"> >
> 
> > ------------------------------------------------------------------------ >
> **From:** Shrivathsa B \<[shrivath...@gmail.com]()\>  
> **To:** BHARATIYA VIDVAT \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
> **Sent:** Sunday, September 6, 2015 12:18 PM  
> **Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Priestly errors?  
> > 
> > 
> > 

