+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-09-30, 23:32:41 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/es5OQJ4Om7Q)]]



Position: Hindi Language, Lecturer, Rutgers Univesity New Brunswick  
\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*  
  
  
Rutgers University - New Brunswick, African, Middle Eastern and South Asian Languages and Literatures (AMESALL)  
  
Lecturer, Hindi Language  
Institution Type:College / University  
Location:New Jersey, United States  
Position: Lecturer  
  
  
RUTGERS, THE STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW JERSEY (NEW BRUNSWICK)  
LECTURER, HINDI LANGUAGE  
  
  
  
The Departmentof African, Middle Eastern and South Asian Languages and Literatures at Rutgers, TheState University of New Jersey(New Brunswick) invites applications for a renewable annual position of lecturer in Hindi language beginning Fall 2011, subject to final budgetary approval. The ideal candidate will have a PhD in Hindi or another relevant field -- e.g. (Applied) Linguistics, (Foreign/Second/Heritage)Language Education,Second Language Acquisition-- although candidates with an M.A. or M.S. will be considered. Additional requirements include native or near-native proficiency in both spoken and written Hindi, experience in undergraduate Hindi instruction (preferably at an American university), competence in communicative, learner-centered language pedagogy, and creative use of instructional technology. Knowledge of Urdu and of both theDevanagariand Perso-Arabic alphabets would be an added advantage.
The successful candidate will teach six courses per academic year at the elementary, intermediate and advanced levels. Salary is commensurate with education and experience. The position carries a full package of University benefits in addition to the salary.  
  
  
Contact: Aletter of application, updated CV, andthree letters of recommendationshould be submitted to:  
  
  
Professor Maryam Borjian  
Chair, Hindi Search Committee  
Department of African, Middle Eastern and South Asian Languages and Literatures  
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey  
54Joyce Kilmer Avenue  
Lucy Stone Hall B307  
Piscataway, New Jersey 08854-8070  
  
  
Inquiries should be sent to \<[mbor...@rci.rutgers.edu]()\>. Type Hindi Search in the subject line. Review of applications will commenceNovember 30, 2010and will continue until the position is filled.  
  
  
  
Rutgers is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer.  
  
Website:[http://www.amesall.rutgers.edu/](http://www.amesall.rutgers.edu/)  
Primary Category: South Asian History / Studies  
  
Secondary Categories:African American History / Studies  
Middle East History / Studies  
  
Posting Date: 09/30/2010  
Closing Date12/31/2010

