+++
title = "001 Surendra Mohan Mishra"

+++
[[Surendra Mohan Mishra	2010-03-03, 21:19:02 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/ZZDfsS8mf8c)]]



Ayi Maanyaa Vidvaamsah !

Namaskaarah.

I am highly enthused to read what Dr N R Joshi and Dr Subramanyam  
Korada in his reply to him have written.

Firstly let me make it clear that i used "atomic"only in the sense of  
a further indivisible part of a given language so also so also of it's  
semantic aspect taking just for analogy the Nyaaya concept of a  
metaphysical and logical atom,vide the Nyaaya suutra "param vaa  
truteh".As put rightly by Dr Joshi earlier the correlation between  
last tip of the acoustic space and the corresponding semantic space  
needs to be brought out in our attempt to analyse a language and this  
in fact has been attempted in a number of ways in the longest  
tradition of development that Samskrit has been fortunate to  
witness.Grammars and Linguistics,Lexicons and Exegeses have been  
continuously presented by scholiasts coming down to the contemporary  
times in support and justification of establishing and re-establishing  
the inseparable relationship between the Word and the World.

I greatly appreciate the basic questions raised by Joshi and I love  
the way Korada wants us to make a stocktaking of the whole otherwise  
holistic understanding will not result.In fact as admitted by the  
ancients pada-vaakya-pramaana-jnataa is a must but along with that the  
whole tradition of usages pushing in varying frequencies of semantic  
nuances ought to be known firsthand as Bhartrihari rightly avers :  
prajnaa vivekam labhate bhinnair aagama-darshanaih/kiyad vaa shakyam  
unnetum sva-tarkam anudhaavataa //(Bra. Kaa.);or as the Mahaabhaarata  
put it : itihaasa-puraanaabhyaam vedam  
samupabrimhayet/vibhetyalpa-shrutaad vedo maam ayam pratarishyati// or  
the statement naa 'vedavin manute tam brihantam /Venkata in his  
introduction to Vedic Comm. gives the great qualifications a  
commentator ought to possess.

Sometimes one feels as if we have been somewhat been shortsighted by  
following Paanini only unsuspectingly and repudiating the rest as  
'apaaniniiya' or 'archaic' which is like calling names and just a  
sacrilege.A pointer to this is the krodapatra by Narayana Bhattatiri  
'Apaaniniiya-praamaanya-saadhanam'.Such usages have been there for a  
much longer time than the Paninian formations.In due recognition of  
our vishaala vaanmaya we know the addage : samudravad vyaakaranam  
maheshvare tadardha-kumbhoddharanam brihaspatau/tadbhaaga-bhaagaac ca  
shatam purandare kushaagra-bindur grathito hi paaninau//This is not to  
minimise the importance of Paanini but to put him in his abhiishta  
perspective.We mostly forget his eminent predecessors and the  
Praatishaakhyas and the subtle language analysis there in the  
Braahmanas,Aaranyakas and Kalpasuutras,dharmashaastras etc.In fact the  
whole literature that came to be drishta,prokta or nibaddha of which  
seventy percent has been lost,is that shabda-murtir vishaalah which is  
our Shabda-Brahma in the unique Bhaaratiiya tradition.We do use  
different logics,frameworks and paradigms and thereby we have  
sampradaayarakshaa annd vriddhi.Hari rightly says : yatnenaanumito 'py  
arthah kushalair anumaatribhih/abhiyuktatarair anyair  
anyathaivopapadyaate//But then we in the face of unflinching logic  
seem to have an unimpeachable position which Jayantabhatta says :  
yatnenaa 'numito 'py arthah kushalair anumaatribhih/abhiyuktatarair  
anyaih so 'nyathaa nopapadyate//See,the divine origin of language also  
ought to be taken with a pinch of salt and we must develop  
perspectives to deconstruct and see through.One logician Bhaasarvajna  
maintains : neha khalu vai suutrakaara-niyoga-bhayaat padaarthaah  
svadharmam haatum arhanti,yadi caa 'vicaaritam suutrakaara-vacah  
pramaanam pariikshaa-suutraanaam tarhi vaiyarthyam syaat/Conforming to  
old ways with logic is no taboo and creating wider paths is not denied  
in our tradition.Our catholicity is our modesty and greatness.

The doctrines of Praaciina and Navya logicians proposing  
'ishvarecchaa-sanketah shaktih' and 'aadhunika-sanketah shaktih' speak  
of the development of a language in histiorical sense also naturally  
warranting changed context and new meaning emerging and consequently  
taken care of by the grammarians and lexicographers.The statement  
'niruktam hi kaartsnyam vyaakaranasya' is very true.Actual usage is  
taken note of by a lexicographer which may or may not be vouchsafed by  
a grammarian.Words generated by grammatical formulae also may not be  
there in actual use."Prushodaraadiini yathopadishtam' and the 'Unaadi'  
are there to lend passport to the words in vogue which otherwise would  
fail to be accounted for.Thus Sanskrit grammar is not closed as some  
think,it has ways to invite and rehabilitate words from outside,but  
only when it's necessary to do so.

Yes.Gurukul tradition is a desideratum as suited of course to present  
reality,not adversely adulterated i mean,is a sure way to preserve and  
further our distinct traditions of intellectual growth.Both kshema and  
yoga must be taken care of.Bhaaratiiya Vidvat Parishad should  
deliberate on what exactly should be the difference and meeting point  
between the traditional and modern systems of education in the  
Shaastras.The syllabii of the universities and the vidyaapiithas(both  
now run on an European/American pattern) present a anomalous picture  
as to what exactly is being put across.But rejuvenating and  
re-inventing the Gurukul system would be a great idea.Manu truly  
declares : nishekaadi-shmashaanaantam mantrair yasyodito vidhih/tasya  
shaastre 'dhikaaro 'sti jneyo naa 'nyasya kasyacit.Unless and until we  
live and breathe in a culture,how can we ever command it's language  
which is culture-specific the sensitivities and sensibilities are more  
deep-rooted than what normally meets our so called critical judgment  
which is only a clever paraphrasing.The Nirukta-commentator Durga says  
: 'ninyaa vacaamsi' and 'gambhiira-padaartho hi vedah'.Justly it's  
so.Our traditions inspire both awe and reverence.

The Dictionary of Sanskrit on Historical Principles at Deccan  
College,Pune would serve much if completed in the right earnest,but so  
far perhaps the letter 'a' is yet to be completed if my information is  
correct.

We have grown from stipulated dhaatvarthas to 'anekaarthaa hi dhaatavo  
bhavanti(MBhaashya)' to 'sati taatparye sarve sarvaartha-vaacakaah'  
and in metaphysics 'sarvam sarvaatmakam'(Vyaasa in  
Yoga-suutra-vritti).Our visions and missions have been commendable and  
this journey is to be taken ahead in svatantra Bhaaratam !

And one thing in fine : Korada is apt in in his exhortion that it is  
'dharma' that has bestowed on Samskrit this universal life and glory  
that the world now reckons after attempts to subdue her timeless  
spirit.The Vedas are essentially the repository of this 'dharma' and  
the whole paramparaa can be traced back to this pivotal force.Even the  
non-Vedic owe their origin to a distinct aspect of this Vedic  
heritage.

vidushaam vidheyah  
surendramohanmishrah  
kurukshetra-vishvavidyaalayah  

