+++
title = "000 सा. श्रेयसः"

+++
[[सा. श्रेयसः	2015-10-06, 11:06:51 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/WmyX-uAgg0Q)]]



Dear Scholars and Academics,

  

We've seen a lot of publicity for the funding of Hinduism/Indic Chairs at Columbia, Yale, Harvard,etc. by

Indian philanthropists.

  

Aside from the traditional mutts, was wondering if there is there any such similar effort going on

in India with large private funding as mentioned below -

  

<http://swarajyamag.com/politics/stop-feeding-the-crocodile-the-ivy-league-syndrome/>

  

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_Quote\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

Given the cost of setting up one academic chair in USA (approximately $4 million), it would be far better to use that money and set up a whole department of scholars in India with the concentrated goal to develop a new discourse on some specific topic. As an example, a centre to develop a Hindu perspective on women’s status and role could be tasked to produce game changing discourse on that theme. This would then be disseminated worldwide through multiple channels. Several such theme-specific centres ought to be established in India. This is how China has taken control of the way China is being studied worldwide. They did not outsource the knowledge production about their civilization the way Indians have.

  

Such an approach would nurture the ‘Make in India’ spirit in the field of South Asian Studies. It would keep the adhikara and world class expertise within Indian institutions. The new genre of discourse would also be intimately connected with our traditional mathas and peethams, rather than with the likes of Ford Foundation, Western churches and think tanks and their paradigms. This would de-colonize our youth and media once they realize that we are the best experts on who we are as a people.

--------------------

  

Regards,

-Shreyas

