+++
title = "001 Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma"

+++
[[Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma	2010-09-20, 22:55:42 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/YPWE6m0P3_U)]]



अभिवन्द्य,

  
>1. Was this Qutub Minar once called Vishnu Dhvaja?  

I remembere to have read that it was called Vishnu Dhvaja.  
Perhaps in oen of the posts/mails by Sri Arun Kumar Upadhyay, IPS.  
But that file is not easily located in my collections. However, something related is found.  
The following excerpts are from a mail sent by Sri Arun Kumar Upadhyay, IPS to me and others  
on **Mon, Aug 2, 2010 at 7:37 PM**  
Thanks to Sri ArunKumar Upadyay Ji.  
Relevant points are highlighted by me.  
  
"Vishnu purana 2/8 tells about Shishumara-chakra which is perpendicular to ecliptic plane around which earth’s axis rotates in 26000 years, called precession of equinoxes (also explained by Al-Biruni). This has been called Naka-svarga in Vedas (Madhusudan Ojha-Brahma-siddhanta etc.). Axis of solar system and galaxy (Parameshthi mandala) have been called Lingas in space in Shivapurana.  
Kutub-minar is model of Sumeru of earth in space. At Delhi, its semi-vertical angle is equal to difference between true and mean latitude there. That was not known after Mahabharata till 1850 AD. In 456 BC at start of Sri-Harsha shaka (Al-Biruni, Abul Fazal), it was place of northern most position of moon on earth surface (inclination of earth’s axis 23.90 + inclination of moon’s orbit with ecliptic 5.020)-Refer my commentary on Siddhanta-Darpana, chapter 16. So, ‘Chandra’ has been written on iron pillar there. A pillar of 12 units (called Shiva-linga of 12 angula in Shiva purana) was used to measure time and latitude of a place. It is called Shanku in surya-siddhanta etc. Smallest shadow is at noon time and locus of shadow end around that time is in shape of a ‘Kutup’ called kuppi (funnel, thistle-kip) in Hindi. So, the muhurtta at noon time is called Kutupa-muhurtta. By bisecting the shadow line equi-spaced from noon, say at 11 and 13 hrs-we get north–south direction. This is explained as traversing in books of astronomical survey for M.Tech (civil). The bisection is by common part of two circles in shape of a ’Mina’ (fish), so the pillar is called Kutup-Mina or Kutub-minar.  
Magnetic compass does almost same work, so it is called Kutub-numa. In that also, needle floating on mercury is called ‘Mina’. Local references of latitude also have been given name of fish like Rohataka ( almost at longitude of Ujjain) and Hilsa near Patna (100 east of Ujjain).  
Mapping of earth surface of north (and south) hemisphere was in 4 sheets of 900 longitude width. It was centered round north pole called Meru or Sumeru. Bharata-varsha (India) has been called one of the 4 petals of that lotus (earth surface) as it roughly extends 450 west and 450 east of Ujjain. Thus, Meru has 4 faces and its linga (symbol) has square base-called Svayambhu linga as in Kaaba of Arab at west end of Bharata. Pyramids were constructed 450 and 1800 west of Ujjain in Ezypt and at Mexico (called Siddhapura in Surya siddhanta)-Valmiki Ramayana, Kishkindha kanda (40/54, 64).  
South pole was called Kumeru (opposite to Sumeru in north). Aryabhata (Kali 360 = 2742 BC)  
  





> --  
> अथ चेत्त्वमिमं धर्म्यं संग्रामं न करिष्यसि।  
> ततः स्वधर्मं कीर्तिं च हित्वा पापमवाप्स्यसि।।  
> तस्मादुत्तिष्ठ कौन्तेय युद्धाय कृतनिश्चयः।  
> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  

  
  
  
--  
Aangirasa/Dr.S.Ramakrishna Sharma. M.A.,Ph.D.(Eng.Lit.),Ph.D.(Sanskrit.).  

