+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-10-04, 05:01:51 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/Hg3m_fM_ufI)]]



**‘Next friend’ helped Ram claim rightful place**

  
Monday, October 4, 2010  
**  
**

**A SURYA PRAKASH**  
  
Several commentators, who are not clued into the intricacies of Hindu law, have expressed surprise over the Allahabad High Court’s verdict in the Ayodhya case, especially in regard to the juristic rights of the deities exercisable through a “next friend” and on the court’s eventual conclusion that Ram Janmabhoomi constitutes the birthplace of lord Ram. Much of the confusion stems from a lack of understanding of the fact that a Hindu deity can sue and be sued and that the deity can seek relief in courts via a “next friend”.  
  
Of the four title suits that were decided by the Allahabad High Court in the Ayodhya case, only one suit filed on behalf of lord Ram was accepted by the court. All the other suits (filed by Sunni Central Board of Wakfs and others; Sri Gopal Singh Visharad and Nirmohi Akhara and Another) were dismissed. In the suit filed on behalf of lord Ram (Bhagwan Sri Ram Virajman & Ors vs Sri Rajendra Singh & Ors - OOS No. 5 of 1989), lord Ram was the first plaintiff (Bhagwan Sri Ram Virajman), the second plaintiff was Sthan Sri Ram Janma Bhumi, Ayodhya (the place known as Ram Janmabhoomi), and the third plaintiff was Deoki Nandan Agarwal, a retired judge who became the “next friend” of the deities in 1989. Following Agarwal’s demise, the baton passed on to TP Verma and then on to Trilokinath Pandey, who was appointed the “next friend” of the deities by the Supreme Court.  
  
KN Bhat, former Additional Solicitor-General who represented lord Ram and the Janmasthan — acting through the “next friend” Pandey, argued that a Hindu deity is a juristic person who can sue and be sued and can possess properties and that this is well established through judgements of the Privy Council and the Supreme Court; that the Janmasthan is itself a deity; and that the suit is not barred by limitation because the deity (lord Ram) is in the position of a perpetual minor. The final outcome of the case depended substantially on whether the court accepted these averments made on behalf of the plaintiffs.  
  
Quoting from Mukherjea’s Hindu Law of Religious and Charitable Trusts, the plaint said lord Ram was a “juristic entity” with a juridical status: “Its (the deity’s) interests are attended to by the person who has the deity in his charge and who in law is its manager, with all the powers which would…be given to the manager of the estate of an infant heir. This doctrine…is firmly established.” Such a deity, deemed to be a perpetual minor, can sue through a “next friend” appointed by the courts.  
  
As regards lord Ram’s place of birth, the contention was that Sthan Sri Ram Janmabhoomi (the place itself) was an object of worship as a deity by the devotees of lord Ram and it personified the spirit of the Divine. The Sthan (the place) was thus deified and had a juridical personality of its own even before the construction of the temple and the installation of the idol of lord Ram. According to the faith of the devotees, lord Ram resides at this place and can be experienced by those who offer prayers there. An idol is not necessary for invoking the divine spirit. Other examples of places sanctified by belief, even though there is no idol, are Kedarnath, Vaishno Devi and Gaya.  
  
The plaint also quoted extensively from the Gazetteers to establish the fact that Hindu belief in regard to lord Ram’s birthplace had been acknowledged by many authorities over several centuries. The evidence adduced on behalf of these plaintiffs included Ajudhia in Historical Sketch of Tehsil Faizabad by P Carnegy, Officiating Commissioner and Settlement Officer. Carnegy states that Janmasthan marks the place where Sri Ramchandra was born, and adds that “Ajudhia (Ayodhya) is to the Hindu, what Macca is to the Mohomedan, Jerusalem to the Jews…..” These Gazetteers, written by British officers, are seen as having considerable evidentiary value.  
  
The court upheld these contentions. It said that lord Ram and Ram Janmabhoomi, the place of his birth, were juristic persons and that the “next friend” of the deities was entitled to represent them. It said that the suit filed on behalf of the deities was not barred by limitation and that the premises in question (or any part thereof) is by tradition, belief and faith the birthplace of lord Ram. Justice Agarwal said that the area covered by the central dome of the disputed structure “being the deity of Bhagwan Ram Janamsthan and place of birth of lord Ram as per faith and belief of the Hindus, belongs to plaintiffs (Suit 5) and shall not be obstructed or interfered in any manner”. Justice Sharma also concluded that lord Ram’s place of birth was a juristic person and a deity and that the Archaeological Survey of India had proved that the disputed structure was built after demolition of a “massive Hindu religious structure”. Justice SU Khan also opined that Hindus treated/believed that the birthplace of lord Ram is situated in that area and granted the place where at present the idol is kept in a makeshift temple.  
  
In his judgement, Justice DV Sharma said he agreed with Bhat’s argument that the deities “are like infants” and they are juristic entities and have juridical status. He said an idol is a juristic person. “It is not a property that can be shifted to another place.” One of the contentions of the defendants was that the deities could not have a special status because their pran pratishtha was not done. Justice Sharma rejected this argument, saying, “They were properly worshipped for the last many decades.” As regards the birthplace of lord Ram, the plaintiffs had contended that the Janmasthan is “an indestructible and immoveable deity” who has existed throughout ages. The judge rejected the Muslim claim of adverse possession and said such a claim can be made in respect of properties dedicated to a deity but not where “the property itself is the deity”.  
  
Given the eventual outcome of this long-drawn dispute, devotees of lord Ram owe a debt of gratitude to Deoki Nandan Agarwal, whose efforts from 1989, when he became the “next friend”, have in many ways clinched the issue in favour of lord Ram and Ram Janmabhoomi.

  

<http://dailypioneer.com/287546/%E2%80%98Next-friend%E2%80%99-helped-Ram-claim-rightful-place.html>

  

धन्योस्मि

धन्यवादःकल्याणरामन

Iqbal: “Watan ki fikra kar nadan musibat aane wali hai, Teri barbadiyon ke mashware hain aasmanon mein. Na samjhoge to mit jaoge e Hindustanwalon, Tumahari dastan tak bhi na hogi dastanon mein (Worry for the country, or you will be wiped out)”.

पश्यन्तु अस्मन्नाममहिमा!

<http://sites.google.com/site/kalyan97>

