+++
title = "000 Dr.Raghavendra.Bhat"

+++
[[Dr.Raghavendra.Bhat	2019-09-10, 14:20:46 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/hxMs9itWmzY)]]



Respected Madam/Sir,  

Namaste From Kaivalyadhama Yoga Research Institute, Lonavla, Inda.



Kaivalyadhama, Lonavla, founded by Swami Kuvalayananda, in 1924, is one of the pioneering institutesworking in the field of Yoga. Over 95 years, the Institute has been serving the cause of humanity in developing value based Yoga Education and imparting this knowledge to numerous people every year. The Institute is aided by the Ministry of HRD, and was recognized in1962as an Institute of Higher Learning in the field of Yoga.   

  

The seminar revolves around the theme of Yoga and Values in Indian Education System. Yoga is the ancient Indian knowledge-system, which not only widens the path of self-development in human being but also imbibes positive values towards the attainment of perfection. The ancient scriptures like the Vedas, Upanishads, Bhagavadgita, Patanjala Yogasutra and other treatises of wisdom contain the precious teachings on human values, which have been enriching the society for time immemorial. Values are integrally linked to educational aims, contents and processes. Hence, inculcation of values in human being through educational processes is an undeniable necessity. The values not only facilitate human growth but also build a harmony between the man and his environment.

  

The objective of the seminar is:

Education is a continuously evolving system. There is a need to inculcate in the education system the fundamental values enshrined in our scriptures so that the basic aim of creating a better human being is fulfilled. In the modern scenario, the value teachings as revealed in our scriptures are neglected in our society and hence there is a dire need to rejuvenate the system for the greater benevolence of the world. Taking a major stride in this direction, Kaivalyadhama organizes this ‘National seminar’. This seminar aims to focus on the understanding and discussing the great value system and to integrate them towards creating a more synthesized futuristic approach.

Pl. find the attachment file with this email and humbly requesting you to Spread this messages through out your esteemed Department /University and especially for the Yoga Lovers, Students and staff members.

Pl Feel free to contact :



**Kaivalyadhama Yoga Institute Swami Kuvalayananda Marg,**

**Lonavala - 410403, Maharashtra**

**Tel: (02114) 273001 / 273039**

**  
**

**Email - [kdhamsem...@gmail.com]()**

**      [in...@kdham.com]()**

**  
**

**Web: [www.kdham.com](http://www.kdham.com)   
**

  

**Mr. G N Muthy :- 9422022301**

  

  

With warm regards



Yours sincerely

  

