+++
title = "001 hn bhat"

+++
[[hn bhat	2009-09-05, 10:15:22 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/lIEZK2Lnq0A)]]



Thank you for clarifying the intention of your question. It is  
relevant in the case of Purushameha also. If the discussion lead the  
other way, because of your previous question, it was in search of the  
true meaning in the context of Veda-s and also I remember, some  
question raised earlier, if the purushamedha is symbolically  
interpreted, how to account for the episode of Shunashepha (may be  
probably from you or some other member). So the search took in both  
directions. I was observing the ongoing advancement. Now, first of all  
let me answer your supposition in this message:  

  
"What I was saying that over centuries the meaning might have  

undergone changes" is exactly right and was recognized by the great  
commentator Mahabhashyakara. Many vedic words had become obsolete at  
his time itself (3rd Century BC) and a discussion, ends with if you  
cannot find now, you can look for them in the vast body of literature  
(including Vedic ones). So there is no fault if such words are offered  
described by the grammarian. I remember Yaska also recognized these  
changes and had followed a convenient method at his time.I have  
attached a document in this respect regarding the standards followed  
at his time and thereafter from time to time to arrive at the precise  
meaning in the case of homonyms.  
  
In the second direction, many original quotation for the existence are  
still collected and examining the testimonies, it may be separately  
taken up. In any case, it also seems yield some result in the near  
future in finding out some idea about the human sacrifice as denoted  
by the word purushamedha. I also have collected some more instances,  
where there is mention of purusham/purushaan alabhate (he sacrifices  
purusha.). Will be getting back soon.  

î—“

\> <http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL2141/fc/BLSrjpTFoYcZSF9TTqLUEzF2mNyEqZ3RVb91C9UMGOvYgvSD9YU01UTBka8/>  
\> \>  
\>  

