+++
title = "000 Sudhishtha Mishra"

+++
[[Sudhishtha Mishra	2016-02-16, 21:45:49 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/K0OhBrBqsE4)]]



You must read this

Sify.comNewsColumnsQuestions on which JNU is silent... Questions on which JNU is silent... Source : SIFY By : Ashley Tellis Last Updated: Mon, Feb 15, 2016 15:25 hrs Post your Comments Share The nation is in an uproar about what is happening in JNU. The great intellectual freedom of the greatest University of the country is under threat. Or is it? JNU is actually one of the emptiest Universities in the country. Students pose as great radicals but actually do nothing that steps outside the party line. The thunderous outburst against the government's rather silly charge of sedition against some utterly meaningless protest is inversely proportionate to the chilling silence on the rapes and sexual violence that unfolds on that campus pretty much every day. Let us ask a series of questions about one such case. Why is there a strange silence around the rape of a foreign student in Jawaharlal Nehru University that happened last year? Why were there two peculiar news reports in January 2016, one informing us that the accused Professor has been sacked based on the findings of the GSCASH, the Gender Sensitisation Committee Against Sexual Harassment in JNU, and the other informing us that people within Jawaharlal Nehru University have been warned not to speak about cases on campus anywhere outside? Why did the articles refer to the incident as one of sexual harassment and not rape? Why has an FIR not yet been filed by the University against the accused Professor, especially given the clearly guilty verdict pronounced by its own structure, the GSCASH? Why do the two reports not name him (since when do we have protection of the victimiser's name)? Why did the complaint take so long to be filed with GSCASH? Why did GSCASH warn a student organisation after they put up a poster on the issue which had no named anyone or violated anybody's privacy? Why did GSCASH take so long to come up with its report? Why was the report undercut by JNUTA, the Teacher's Association of JNU (one institution in the same University undercutting another)? What are a large number of teachers in JNU afraid of and why were they against the sacking of the accused Professor? Why did the issue go up to the Executive Committee (EC) level after the clear GSCASH report? Why did outside members on this Committee have to force JNU's hand on the sacking of the accused Professor? Why is JNU issuing mysterious reports to the press like the ones referred to above? Why were the student bodies, especially the student body in power in the JUNSU, otherwise eager to respond to every gender-based violation in the country, silent on this rape within their own campus? Why did only a handful of JNU Professors write a mealy-mouthed letter condemning the JNUTA's attempt to scuttle the GSCASH decision? Why is the media content to simply carry reports issued by Universities with no independent investigation of the issue? Why and how in this age of the social media was there an almost complete media blackout on the issue, apart from the odd rightwing nutter on facebook and twitter trying to gain political mileage out of it and not addressing the issue seriously at all? Why has Kavita Krishnan, Secretary, All India Progressive Women's Association (AIPWA) and politburo member of the CPI (ML) Liberation, linked to the party in power in JNU, otherwise spokesperson against gender-based violence across the country, been completely silent about it? What does this say about the power of the accused Professor and the power of otherwise so-called progressive groups that have maintained a silence on the issue? What does such a malignant silence about a rape in India's premier University say about the culture of gender-based violence in JNU and in Universities across the country? What is the hope for justice for the student and for students like her across the country? By contrast, the noise and hullaballoo over the so-called seditious meeting just will not stop. DSU, the student party that organised the meeting, has done nothing about Kashmir ever apart from have such useless meetings at key flashpoints. What have they done to sustain the campaign against the occupation against Kashmir? The fact is that JNU has become (always was?) some sort of emblematic and empty (like most emblems) icon of the Left in India. Like all stripes of the Left in India, the political parties in JNU, linked to these stripes, only know how to toe the party line and scream themselves hoarse about what is safe and stay silent on anything that questions their foundation. It is time we found our political voices in spaces other than the casteist, classist and utterly pretentious hellholes like JNU. As Kerala Dalit rights activist Ajith puts it: "Rohith's was an institutional murder. The question of institutional /systematic caste violence was raised. Now they want to "Save JNU"! So no problem with JNU as an institution? No institutional violence there? No institutional casteism? No internal differences /discrimination? Akhand Bharath to Akhand JNU? I would like to be anti-caste, anti-nationalist than save an institution unproblematically."  

  

--  

**सुधीष्टकुमारमिश्र:**  
प्रान्तसंघटनमन्त्री  
संस्कृतभारती  
दीनदयाल-उपाध्याय-मार्गः  
राउज एवेन्यू  
नईदिल्ली -११०००२  

09868143005

