+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-10-31, 09:02:46 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/UH9iKIrJGGE)]]



CFP 4th International Indonesia Forum Conference  
\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*  
From: Frank Dhont \<[frank...@yale.edu]()\>  
  
Dear colleagues,  
  
Please help us spread the word about this conference:  
  
\*4th International Indonesia Forum:  
Co-Sponsored by:  
Yale UniversityandYogyakarta State University  
  
June 28-29, 2011  
YogyakartaState University,Yogyakarta, Indonesia  
  
EnrichingFuture Generations: Education Promoting Indonesian  
Self-Development  
  
[http://www.yale.edu/seas/YIF-Yogyakarta2011](http://www.yale.edu/seas/YIF-Yogyakarta2011)  
  
Call for Papers  
  
Economic and political developments supporting moredemocratic structuresin  
a globalizing international world provide opportunities but also pose  
challenges forIndonesiaand the increasingly globalized Indonesian citizens  
of the21st century. In order to face these challenges and seize these  
opportunities education is essential. Issues of affordable access to and  
quality of Indonesian education are an essential component of the theme of  
this year's conference. In a broader sense we also welcome scholars to  
consider values taught external to the formal educational establishment,  
including those within families, communities, places of worship and  
businesses as these represent a foundational part of the individual  
educational experience of Indonesians today. On both the structural and  
national levels there are also important issues of development and  
Indonesian nationalism that need to be addressed to meet the challenges of  
tomorrow. This is especially true in a country of great diversity containing  
such a broad range of distinct individuals and groups who comprise this  
Indonesian state where education colors and shapes the Indonesian national  
character and social fabric, teaching what it means to be Indonesian while  
appreciating the unique diversity that strengthens the Indonesian  
nation-state as an emerging leader in the international community.  
  
The 4th International Indonesia Forum sponsored by Yale University andUNY,  
will focus on education in Indonesia. As with past Fora, the topic will be  
approached by scholars of various disciplines from diverse angles. Papers  
are welcome exploring all aspects of the unique mix that shapes Indonesia  
today as education serves as a tool that can be applied to make people into  
better citizens, parents, businessmen, artists, and politicians in the  
Indonesian nation-state framework.  
  
Therefore we call upon the expertise of scholars from Indonesia and beyond  
to pool their expertise to address this issue. The 4th International  
Indonesia Forum Conference will be held at Yogyakarta State University in  
Yogyakartaon June 28-29, 2011.  
  
Persons wishing to present papers at the conference are invited to submit a  
one-page abstract in electronic form (PDF or MSWord) as well as brief CV to  
Frank Dhont at[frank...@yale.edu]()byMarch 31, 2011.  
  
Conference Website:<http://www.yale.edu/seas/YIF-Yogyakarta2011>  
  
Conference Organizers:  
\*Frank Dhont\*, Yale University  
\*Naning Margasari\*, Yogyakarta State University  
\*Thomas J. Conners\*,Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology  
  
Cooperating Institutions:  
Social andPolitical Sciences Faculty, Atma Jaya Yogyakarta University  
Indonesian History Studies Centre, Sanata Dharma University  
Social and Political Sciences Faculty,Diponegoro University  
  
Sincerely,  
  
Frank Dhont  
Yale University  

  

Doctoral (4 years) or Postdoctoral (3 years) Fellow: Buddhism and Social Justice: Doctrine, Ideology and Discrimination in Tension, University of Leiden, Institute for Area Studies  
  
  
Leiden University, The Netherlands, Leiden University Institute for Area Studies  
  
PhD or Post-Doctoral Fellow  
  
  
Institution Type: College / University  
Location: Netherlands  
Position: Doctoral Fellow, Post-Doctoral Fellow  
  
  
Leiden University, The Netherlands, Faculty of Humanities, Institute for Area Studies  
  
  
PHD OR POST-DOC (f/m) 38 hours a week)  
Buddhism and Social Justice: Doctrine, Ideology and Discrimination in Tension  
vacancy number: 10-192  
  
The Leiden Institute for Area Studies (LIAS) is responsible for researchers who are active in the fields of relations with East, South and Central and Southeast Asia and the Middle East. The Institute is divided into a School for Asian Studies and a School for Middle Eastern Studies. A multidisciplinary approach which comprises both the modern and the traditional periods is typical for the teaching and research within this Institute, whereby the knowledge of the source language is essential. The research of the approximately 75 staff members (including 20 professors) brings together the study of such subjects as history, law, economy, literature, religion and philology of the areas mentioned, both in the present day and in ancient times.  
  
Starting September 2011 the Leiden Institute for Area Studies has one full time (38 hrs) vacancy, available as a 4 year PhD position or 3 year Post-Doctoral fellowship, in the VICI project "Buddhism and Social Justice: Doctrine, Ideology and Discrimination in Tension," headed by Prof dr. Jonathan A. Silk.  
  
Project description  
  
Buddhism is widely perceived to be, and Buddhist sources themselves promote the tradition as, a philosophy of liberation. Yet, as perhaps everywhere, Buddhist societies, both ancient and modern, not only evidence, but indeed seem to promote, social inequalities. The project Buddhism and Social Justice explores the inner tensions in Buddhist cultures between inherited core values and social realities, with specific foci on questions of labor (e.g., slavery and forced labor, serfdom) and social status (e.g., caste and discrimination).  
  
The project as originally conceived consisted of five studies: a core investigation of slavery and caste in India, and studies on slavery in Korea, burakumin (outcastes) in Japan, serfdom and monastic economy in Tibet, and ethnicity and Buddhism in Sri Lanka. At present members of the project will study slavery and caste in India, slavery in Korea, serfdom and monastic economy in Tibet, and ethnicity and Buddhism in Bhutan.

  
These are approached through text-historical, historical and a socio-anthropological methods. The synergy between the projects lies in the question of how Buddhist ways of thinking and acting inform and structure historically Buddhist Asian societies, and how, correspondingly, Buddhist ideologies and dogmas were transformed in historical contexts. This study seeks therefore to uncover the links between the ancient and the modern and the theoretical and the real-world, thereby leading both to a deeper appreciation of how religious systems function in societies in general, and to a more nuanced appreciation of the dynamics of historically Buddhist societies in general, particularly with respect to questions of social justice. As such, the work is situated not only within the realms of Buddhist Studies and Asian History, but also at the juncture of Religious Studies, Political Science and Anthropology, as it engages issues of Church and Society, Slavery Studies, and the study of Race, Ethnicity and Caste.  
  
The available position is for a scholar interested in investigating, from the viewpoint of Buddhist Studies, some aspect of Buddhism and Social Justice not currently covered in the project. Because the focus of the study is Buddhism, familiarity with the history, doctrine and relevant original languages of Buddhist traditions is essential.  
  
Applicants for a PhD position  
  
Tasks  
  
The writing of a PhD dissertation;  
publishing research results in the form of (an) article(s) and/or books;  
presenting papers at (international) conferences, including the final conference of the project;  
participation in local research meetings and PhD teaching;  
organizing roundtable meetings and conferences in the framework of the research project.  
  
  
Requirements  
  
an MA, M.Phil or equivalent degree in a relevant field;  
research knowledge of the language(s) necessary for the project;  
fluency in English (spoken and written) and competence in other relevant modern languages;  
ability to work independently.  
  
  
Post-Doctoral Fellowship applicants should have a demonstrably excellent academic track record in Buddhist Studies, and hold a PhD in Buddhist Studies or a related field, or its equivalent. They should have an excellent command of English and be prepared to present their research results in English. Applicants will teach a small number of courses on topics within their area of specialization, and assistance in guiding the PhD students.  
  
Conditions of employment  
  
The position of the Postdoctoral fellow is temporary, max. three years with a full-time appointment (38 hours per week). The position of PhD-fellow (promovendus) is temporary, max. four years with a full-time appointment, and with an initial 18-month trial period.  
  
The salary is determined in accordance with the current scales as set out in the collective labor agreement for the Dutch universities (CAO):  
  
Postdoctoral fellow: min. 2.379, max. 4.374  
  
PhD fellow: min. 2.042 - max. 2.612  
  
Candidates from outside the Netherlands may be eligible for a substantial tax break.  
  
Information  
  
For more information about the position please contact Prof. dr. J.A Silk, tel. [+31-71-5272510](tel:+31%2071%20527%202510), email[j.a....@hum.leidenuniv.nl](), and see the full project description at<http://hum.leiden.edu/lias/research/sas/vici-project-silk.html>  
  
Application  
  
PhD candidates please send your application (in English), including:  
  
a cover letter stating your motivation for this position, a CV  
copies of your academic transcripts  
a writing sample (such as your MA thesis), and  
two letters of reference.  
  
Post-doc candidates please send your application (in English), including:  
  
a cover letter stating your motivation for this position,  
a CV,  
copies of your academic transcripts,  
a printed copy of your PhD thesis and other relevant publications, and  
three letters of reference.  
  
  
Please send your application indicating the application number before the deadline of  
30 November 2010 to:  
  
[vacatu...@hum.leidenuniv.nl]()  
or  
  
P&O FGW  
  
PO Box 9515  
  
2300 RA Leiden  
  
The Netherlands  
  
  
Contact:  
  
For more information about the position please contact Prof. dr. J.A Silk, tel. [+31-71-5272510](tel:+31%2071%20527%202510), email[j.a....@hum.leidenuniv.nl](), and see the full project descriptionat<http://hum.leiden.edu/lias/research/sas/vici-project-silk.html>  
  
Website:<http://hum.leiden.edu/lias/research/sas/vici-project-silk.html>  
Primary Category: Asian History / Studies  
  
Secondary Categories: Area Studies  
Religious Studies and Theology  
  
Posting Date: 10/25/2010  
Closing Date 11/30/2010  

