+++
title = "000 Mārcis Gasūns"

+++
[[Mārcis Gasūns	2020-09-25, 02:11:24 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/epglL68soB8)]]



And some Pali.

  

The end of Assyriology at SOAS University of London

In June 2020 SOAS closed at short notice many low-recruiting  
undergraduate and postgraduate programmes. The closures were a  
preliminary to a brutal downsizing of the university’s staff, which  
came later in the summer. The measures followed several successive  
years of financial deficit and the prediction of a large shortfall in  
student-fee income consequent upon the impact of Covid-19 on student  
recruitment. Deep and immediate cuts in expenditure were required  
across the whole range of the School’s activities to safeguard its  
future.

The cuts hit language study hard. Most Asian and African languages  
survive only in much reduced form, as minor options of one or, at  
most, two years’ duration. The outcome for Ancient Near Eastern  
Studies could not have been worse. Both undergraduate and postgraduate  
programmes were closed to new students. After the current students  
graduate in 2022, teaching in Sumerian and Hittite will cease  
altogether. Akkadian, if it survives at all, will become a minor  
option of one year’s duration only. Other dead Asian languages have  
also closed, notably Syriac, Avestan and Pahlavi; only Sanskrit  
remains.

The closing of the Ancient Near Eastern Studies programmes made their  
teachers effectively redundant. As a consequence Andrew George,  
Professor of Babylonian, was obliged to volunteer for severance and  
left SOAS in August. Mark Weeden, Senior Lecturer in Ancient Near  
Eastern Studies, remains in post but will soon be unable to teach the  
subjects for which he was appointed. Jana Matuszak, midway through a  
fixed-term lectureship funded by the Leverhulme Trust, will not  
continue in post beyond the end of that term. Two postdoctoral  
fellows, Sam Mirelman and Nadia Ait Said-Ghanem, both funded by the  
British Academy, remain to see out their fixed terms. When the last of  
these four colleagues departs, a research cluster which has had an  
unusually prominent international impact over many decades will exist  
no more. Assyriology at SOAS will then follow the teaching of Ancient  
Near Eastern Studies into extinction.

The demise of Assyriology at SOAS comes seventy-two years after its  
initiation, which was marked by the appointment of Sidney Smith to a  
professorship in Semitic languages in 1948. Smith was followed by C.  
J. Gadd, H. W. F. Saggs, D. J. Wiseman and David Hawkins, all of them  
Fellows of the British Academy. Others who helped with the teaching of  
Ancient Near Eastern Studies at SOAS during the last half century were  
Alan Millard, Nicholas Postgate, Martin J. Selman, Johanna Firbank,  
Daniel Schwemer, Cornelia Wunsch, Fran Reynolds, Frans van Koppen,  
Marie-Christine Ludwig, Martin Worthington, Luis Siddall and  
Christopher Metcalf. Other Assyriologists whose research has been  
hosted at SOAS in the last two decades include Stefan Maul, Farouk  
Al-Rawi, Yasuyuki Mitsuma, Jeanette Fincke, Annunziata Rositani, Amir  
Gilan and Abather Saadoon.

The destruction of Ancient Near Eastern Studies at SOAS has more than  
local ramifications. It reduces national teaching provision by one  
third. It places British research capacity in Assyriology at similar  
risk. It is one more indication that unendowed posts in small subjects  
are now extremely vulnerable in British universities, especially when  
they are exposed to the full force of market economics.

Andrew George  
Nadia Ait Said-Ghanem  
Jana Matuszak  
Sam Mirelman  
Mark Weeden

