+++
title = "000 Damodara Dasa"

+++
[[Damodara Dasa	2014-10-08, 13:24:44 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/6mwAXQZTRZg)]]



Hare Krishna.  
Respected Vidvadjanas,  
  
Generally it is said that the King Pariksit took shelter on the bank  
of the Ganges for hearing Srimad Bhagavatam, but according to Srila  
Jiva Gosvämi, the King took shelter on the bank of the Yamunä. From  
Bhagavatam's commentary by AC Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada,  
Hastinapur was situated near present Delhi. Then Srila Jiva Gosvämi's  
statement appears to be more accurate because of its geographical  
situation. Mahäräja Pariksit resided in his capital Hastinäpura,  
situated near present Delhi, and the River Yamunä flows down past the  
city. Naturally the King would take shelter of the River Yamunä  
because she was flowing past his palace door.  
  
For your reference I have attached a jpg of Krama Sandarbha, Jiva  
Gosvami's commentary on Bhagavatam 1.19.6 (in sanskrit).  
  
Now it is also known (from some sources) that Srimad Bhagavatam was  
heard by Parikshit Maharaja on the banks of Ganges at Sukatal. Also it  
is known that Hastinapur was washed away by the ganges and there is  
also some archeological site showing washed away hastinapur on the  
bank of ganges.  
  
So my question is regarding geogrophical location of Hastinapur - was  
it near present Delhi (yamuna) or near ganges? Also the connected  
question is - what is the probable location where Srimad Bhagavatam  
was recited by Sukadeva Gosvami to Parikshit Maharaja - near  
hastinapur or near sukatal, or somewhere else near ganges?  
  
I would request vidvadjanas that if any research is already done in  
this regard then just give me the reference of that so that I can read  
it first and see my doubt solved. I understand that your time is  
valuable and you may not want to spend time on things already  
discussed or researched, rahter they would like to just link me to the  
research done.  
  
Thankyou,  
damodara das  
09737475085  
  
--  
[www.bvks.com](http://www.bvks.com)  

