+++
title = "000 rniyengar"

+++
[[rniyengar	2010-09-28, 07:18:38 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/65NVrBVrHaQ)]]



Dear Dr.Joshi you write:  
“If we assume Indra, Varun, Mitra, Naasatya were somewhere in the  
heaven located far away from the earth, then how could we explain war  
between Indra and Krishna? We have to admit that it happened in the  
sky or admit that is just a story.”  
  
I submit:  
  
No! It is not necessarily an assumption. There can be alternate  
possibilities and explanations. It has been a cultural trait to name  
persons after stars and heavenly bodies. Example: Agastya. It is well  
established astronomers equated Agastya with Canopus. Hence, in some  
legends connected with Agastya, taking him to be in the heavens leads  
to consistent answers. This does not happen at all the places, of  
course. If we have to take Agastya to be always earthly/geographical,  
this becomes just another assumption. More importantly, we would due  
to our own ignorance, miss something important to history and  
culture. Please see the paper by (Late) Dr.Abhyankar (Ex-president of  
Indian Astronomical Society)  
  
<http://www.scribd.com/doc/38277215/Agastya-or-Canopus-of-Indian-Astronomy-by-K-D-Abhyankar>  
  
One may not accept all the astronomical explanations as valid but it  
at least presents counter examples to the literalistic earthly  
interpretations. About Indra, it is possible in some places of RV  
Indra is a real earthly person. But this can not be generalized to all  
places. So also about Mitra, VaruNa, Ashvins. See the mantra in the  
Tai AraNyaka  
  
….dharmo mūrdhānam brahmottarāhanuh yajño’dharā visnurhrdayam  
samvathsarah prajananam aśvinau pūrvapādāvatrirmadhyam  
mitrāvarunavaparapadau agnih pucchasya prathamam kāndam tata  
indrastath prajāpatirabhayam caturtham sa vā esa divyaśśākvaraś-  
śiśumārah …….dhruvastvamasi dhruvasya ksitamasi tvam  
bhūtānāmadhipatirasi tvam bhūtānāmśrestho’si tvām  
bhūtānāmadhipatirasi tvam bhūtānāmśrestho’si tvām  
bhūtānyupaparyāvartante……śiśukumārāya namah\|\| (TA. II.19.1)  
  
….Dharma is the head, Brahma is the upper jaw, Yajña is the lower  
jaw, Visnu is the heart, Samvatsara is the genital, Aśvins are the  
fore legs, Atri is the center, Mitra and Varuna are the hind legs.  
Agni is the first stem of the tail, then Indra, then Prajāpati and  
Abhayam is the fourth. This is the shining celestial Śiśumāra…….You  
are Dhruva, you are the place of Dhruva……………….. Salutations to the boy-  
child.  
This is a celestial figure or constellation as the mantra itself  
declares. This is later described in the Brhamanda purana quite  
literally. The Vishnu purana knew the astronomical background but  
evolved this to the legend of Uttanapada, suniti, suruchi, and  
Dhruva. Hence we should not foreclose the possibility of celestial  
interpretation (adhidaiva as per Nirukta) without serious  
investigations. This observation means in some places of RV also it is  
necessary to investigate whether Indra, Mitra, VaruNa, Naasatya refer  
to circumpolar stars of the Draco or Shishumara. Eventhough RV may be  
older than Tai.A it becomes imperative to question whether the  
Shishumara of RV could have been celestial instead of just being an  
aquatic animal which (mis)interpretation has been taken by some as a  
possible proof for AIT.  
Non recognition of the celestial nature of Shishumara in RV (1.116.18)  
leads to a literalistic earthly interpretation that Vedic people  
imagined a chariot drawn by a bull on one side and a Gangetic porpoise  
on the other (See SayaNa-bhaashya). I hold such interpretations to be  
basically invalid. I will only point out no civilization will strive  
hard to remember and perpetuate the memory of such texts over  
thousands of years if they were not conveying some important  
information.  
Similarly if we take Ashvins in the above sukta to be located in the  
constellation Shishumaara some interesting conclusions (archaeo-  
astronomical) can be drawn including sūryā getting into the chariot of  
Ashvins after having been given in marriage to Soma.  
Vedic entities (deities/gods/devatas) have non-unique interpretations.  
This might have happened because the corresponding hymns were composed  
at different times and places. With time the variance has increased in  
the PuraNas as in a time series!  
My preliminary research along the above lines on Shishumara is  
available at  
  
<http://www.scribd.com/doc/20298010/Dhruva-the-Ancient-Vedic-Hindu-Pole-Star>  
  
I am yet to write on the Rigvedic Shishumara.  
  
Thanks for the puurva-paksha  
  
RN Iyengar  
  

