+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-10-29, 03:53:41 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/mzLaW5xvoiQ)]]



Position: Asian-American Visual/Film/Media/Cultural Studies, Assistant  
Professor (tenure-track)Cornell University  
\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*  
  
  
Cornell University,Asian American StudiesProgram and the Department of theHistory of Art  
  
Jointly-Appointed Tenure-Track Assistant Professor in Visual/Film/Media/Cultural Studies  
  
  
Institution Type:College / University  
Location: New York, United States  
Position: Assistant Professor  
  
  
Cornell University, Asian American Studies Program and the Department of the History of Art invite applications for a jointly-appointed, tenure-track assistant professor to begin fall semester 2011. We are searching in Visual/Film/Media/Cultural Studies. The candidate's primary research and training area should be in Asian American Studies. Comparative and interdisciplinary interests are encouraged.
Transnational approaches are welcome. The appointment will be housed in Asian American Studies and the History of Art. The PhD must be completed by Fall 2011. We will accept and review applications on a rolling basis untilDec. 3rd. Priority will be given to those applications postmarkedNov. 15th. Please send application, including a cover letter, c.v., andthree letters of recommendationto: Chair, Search Committee, Asian American Studies Program, 420 Rockefeller Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853-2602. Fax[(607) 254-4996](tel:(607)%20254-4996). Cornell is an Affirmative Action,Equal Opportunity Employer.  
  
  
Contact:Cornell University  
Asian American StudiesProgram  
420 Rockefeller Hall  
Ithaca, NY 14853-2602  
Fax [(607) 254-4996](tel:(607)%20254-4996)  
  
Website: None  
Primary Category:Asian American History / Studies  
  
Secondary Categories: Art andArt History  
Ethnic History / Studies  
  
Posting Date: 10/27/2010  
Closing Date01/03/2011

  

Post-doctoral Fellowships:Emory University, The Bill and Carol Fox Center for Humanistic Inquiry  
\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*  
From: H-Net Job Guide:  
  
JOB GUIDE NO.:<https://www.h-net.org/jobs/job_display.php?id=41659>  
  
Emory University, The Bill and Carol Fox Center for Humanistic Inquiry  
  
Post-Doctoral Fellowships  
  
  
Institution Type:College / University  
Location:Georgia, United States  
Position: Post-Doctoral Fellow  
  
  
Post-Doctoral Fellowships  
  
The Bill and Carol Fox Center for Humanistic Inquiry  
  
Emory University  
  
  
The Fox Center for Humanistic Inquiry at Emory University is accepting applications for three Post-Doctoral fellowships for an academic year of study, teaching, and residence in the Center. The FCHI Fellows Program offers research opportunities to those trained in the humanities as traditionally defined and to others seriously interested in humanistic issues; research projects must be humanistic, but fellows may hold the Ph.D. in any discipline. We especially seek applicants and projects that will benefit from and contribute to the interdisciplinary nature of the group of Fellows and the work of the FCHI.  
  
  
  
Post-Doctoral Fellows, who must have the Ph.D. in hand before the submission of their applications, are awarded to those who have held the Ph.D. for no more than six years before receiving the fellowship.  
  
  
  
Besides being an active member of the Centers intellectual agenda through the academic year, Fellows will be expected to offer an upper-level interdisciplinary undergraduate seminar on a subject of their choice during the spring of the fellowship year. Stipends of $40,000 will be offered to Post-Doctoral Fellows, along with a research budget of $2,000, shared office space in the Center, and library access. The deadline for submission of completed applications isFebruary 18, 2011; awards will be announced in mid-April 2011.
Application forms and further information are available from the Fox Center for Humanistic Inquiry at[404-727-6424](tel:(404)%20727-6424)or[fc...@emory.edu](), on the web at[www.chi.emory.edu](http://www.chi.emory.edu/), or write to: FCHI, Emory University,1635 North Decatur Road, Atlanta, GA 30322.  
  
  
Contact: Fox Center for Humanistic Inquiry  
  
Emory University  
  
1635 North Decatur Rd.  
  
Atlanta, GA 30322  
  
Phone: [404-727-6424](tel:(404)%20727-6424)  
  
Fax:[404-727-1669](tel:(404)%20727-1669)  
  
Email:[fc...@emory.edu]()  
  
Website:[http://www.chi.emory.edu](http://www.chi.emory.edu/)  
Primary Category:Humanities  
  
Secondary Categories: None  
Posting Date: 10/27/2010  
Closing Date01/24/2011  

