+++
title = "002 Dr. Tirumala Kulakarni"

+++
[[Dr. Tirumala Kulakarni	2012-09-29, 15:55:45 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/DxxUrTRCtSo)]]



Namaskara  
  

On Fri, Sep 28, 2012 at 5:51 AM, Nityanand Misra \<[nmi...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> Namaste  
>   
> I was reading the Wikipedia article on Telugu script under > [http://te.wikipedia.org/wiki/తెలుగు\_లిపి](http://te.wikipedia.org/wiki/తెలుగు_లిపి).  
>   
> I noted that in the article, the vowels are called అచ్చులు (*acculu*) > and the consonants are called హల్లులు (*hallulu*). Are these standard > terms for vowels and consonants in Telugu? My intuition tells me the > terms come from the अच् (*ac*) and हल् (*hal*) pratyāhāras in Paninian > grammar, but I would like to confirm.  
>   
> Are these terms or similar terms used in other Dravidian languages as > well?  

  

As per my knowledge Kannada Vyakarana books use the words स्वर and व्यंजन.

  

By the by, in day to day Kannada hundreds of words from Araby and Persian have entered, resulting the % of Sanskrit words less.

  

TK

  

>   
> How about Tolkāppiyam - does that use any Samskrita/Paninian technical > terms?  
>   
> I would be much obliged if the Dākṣiṇātya scholars on the forum can > throw some light on this.  
>   
> Thanks, Nityanand  
>   
> > --  
> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
> to subscribe go to the link below and put a request  
> <https://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat/subscribe>  
> To unsubscribe from this group, send email to  
> [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]()  

  
  

  

--  
Dr. Tirumala Kulakarni  
Asst. Prof. Alankara Dept.  
Poornaprajna Vidyaapeetha  
Vidyapeetha Circle  
BANGALORE 560 028  
Ph: [+91 9448879734](tel:+91%2094488%2079734)  
  

