+++
title = "000 SriKanth!"

+++
[[SriKanth!	2011-02-02, 13:51:33 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/4nJsGbNRU9M)]]



<http://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/article1144578.ece>  
  
Can a Muslim be disqualified for the post of Curator in the Tamil Nadu  
Archaeology Department? The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has  
said no. Striking down the “blatant discrimination” adopted by the  
department, Justice K.Chandru allowed a petition with costs of Rs.  
5000.  
  
Responding to a TNPSC advertisement for the posts of Epigraphist,  
Curator, Archaeological Officer and Junior Epigraphist, K.P.A.  
Nallamohamed applied. The commission, by its impugned order of  
November 20, 2009, rejected the application stating that he was not a  
Hindu.  
  
The candidate prayed the court to declare the examination for  
Curator's post held in November 2009 as unconstitutional. He contended  
that there was no requirement for a person to profess Hinduism for the  
post. The rejection was arbitrary and violative of Articles 16 and 21  
of the Constitution.  
  
In its counter, the TNPSC stated that the petitioner had applied for  
all the four posts, giving preference for Curator's post. Since Hindus  
alone were eligible for the posts of Epigraphist, Archaeological  
Officer and Junior Epigraphist, he was not eligible to be considered  
for these posts. As regards Curator, there was no evidence that he had  
knowledge of Sanskrit so as to conform to the qualifications  
prescribed.  
  
Mr. Justice Chandru pointed out that the candidate's lack of knowledge  
of Sanskrit had not been indicated as a reason for the rejection. When  
he applied, he had mentioned the Curator's post as his preference.  
Therefore, the authorities should have considered his case for the  
post if he was otherwise disqualified for the other three posts in  
view of the religious requirement. “It is highly condemnable that the  
TNPSC did not even disclose the actual reason for rejecting the  
petitioner's case.”  
  
There was no difficulty in the State reserving certain posts for  
qualified person from a particular religion if such posts were created  
in connection with the affairs of a religion. As regards knowledge of  
Sanskrit , Mr. Justice Chandru said it need not be proved by producing  
any recognised certificates alone as the notification stipulated that  
it would be sufficient if a person was able to read and write Sanskrit  
texts. If the knowledge was not expected to be proved by producing  
certificates, then such a requirement could be found only during  
interview or by separately calling for details on the fact. That was  
not done in this case.  
  
Setting aside the impugned order, the court directed the authorities  
to consider the petitioner's candidature for any one of the posts  
within 12 weeks. The Judge said the note appended in the notification  
that only Hindus should apply for the advertised posts was invalid.

