+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-10-15, 04:43:59 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/2Rs1heom6v4)]]



<http://www.docstoc.com/docs/51826628/Marcantonio-Salem-Repudiating-linguistic-evidence-Aryan-hypothesis-_1_>

  

This is a powerpoint presentation by Prof. Angela Marcantonio, Univ. of Rome, 'La Sapienza' presented at a symposium on Indo-European linguistics held in Salem State College, USA on July 28, 2010.

  

On slide 6, she notes:

  

> 
> >  style="margin-top:5.28pt;margin-bottom:0pt;margin-left:0.38in;text-align:left;direction:ltr"> >
> •Received wisdom is that Sanskrit derived from Indo-European (IE) >
> 
> > 
> > 
> >  style="margin-top:5.28pt;margin-bottom:0pt;margin-left:0.38in;text-align:left;direction:ltr"> >
> •No evidence from archaeology,palaeo-anthropology or genetics >
> 
> > 

• Challenge the Indo-European theory

–There is no evidence for the existence of an Indo-European speech community

–Allow space for alternative models for the origin of Sanskrit

  

What could such alternative models for the origin and evolution ofसंस्कृतंbe?

  

Marcantonio is clearly questioning the received wisdom of derivation of Samskrtam from IE.

  

Whether IE existed or not need not detain us here. Let us take it as a given that IE existed (to avoid the pitfalls of getting into IE linguistics), and see the possible links amongसंस्कृतं and cognates inभारतीयlanguages.

  

During historical periods, starting from Panini, we note inpANinI's shIkShA:

  

triShaShTishchatuHShaShTirvA varNAH shaMbhumate matAH\|  
prAkRRite saMskRRite chApi svayaM proktA svayaMbhuvA\|\|

  

पाणिनी शिक्षा

  

> 
> > 
> > 
> > त्रिशष्टिश्चतुह्शष्टिर्वावर्णाःशम्भुमतेमताः \| >
> 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> > 

  

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > प्राकृते संस्कृते चापि स्वयं प्रोक्ता स्वयम्भुवा \|\|
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

  

It appears that this is the earliest reference toप्राकृतं(earlier than the reference in Bharata'sनाट्यशास्त्र

Does this provide an adequate lead to understand the origin and evolution of Samskrtam?

  

Is there a possibility of evolving an alternative model to explain the origin of Samskrtam away from the Indo-European origins?

  

One piece of evidence: the French epigraphist, George Coedes who wrote his magnum opus on Hinduised States of Southeast Asia (Trans. of 1944,*Histoire ancienne des Etats hindouisés d'Extreme-Orien*t, Hanoi)did refer to the fact that there were Samskrtam inscriptions in Angkorwat and other states of the Indian Ocean region which are dated to periods Before Common Era (BCE).

  

kalyanaraman 

