+++
title = "001 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-10-15, 18:03:52 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/2Rs1heom6v4)]]



## To pin down 63 or 64 varNa of s'ambhu, mentioned in Paniniशिक्षा, I came across the following page.

  

kalyan

##  

## pANini s’ikSA – 1 to 13 : vaRNAs, swarAs, mAtrAs, kAlAs,sthAyi

The purpose of Panini’s siksha is to make it the meanings of words known, by making it very clear how to pronounce words.

There are considered to be 63 or 64varNAs in the school (mata) of
s’ambhu. In Prakrit and sanskrit by swayambhu*(*[*manu*](http://ancientindians.net/manus-and-manvantaras/)*,*[*Brahma*](http://ancientindians.wordpress.com/brahma/)*),*himself, these varnas were stated.

swaras (*vowels*) are 21 and spars’as (*consonants*) are 25.

*– In the sparsas, it is necessary to touch the upper palate or lip with the tongue, this is not done for swaras. Swaras are a A i I etc, sparsas are ka kha etc .Modern Sanskrit counts 25 sparshas, but less than 21 swaras. So one point to be resolved is what are all the swaras that Panini had in mind. Also note that to pronounce R as in kRSNa, you must not touch the upper palate with your tongue as you do for r as in rAma. – Satya*

From ya to ha there are 8., and there are 4 yamas remembered.

*- I think the yamas are la, ksha, tra, gnya – Satya*

anuswArAh and visargah are two nkanpas and are parAs’ritah.

*- I think this means that anuswara and visarga as in am ah, always need to belong to another letters and do not exist in conversation by themselves. It also implies that anuswara and visarga are not counted as swaras – Satya*

lR has a difficult ending and also pluta.

——————————————–

When the mAruta,*(the wind in your lungs)*, moves in your chest the mandra swaram or low notes are generated.

This is to be used in the early mornings – prAtah savana yOgam – by the chanter (*of the Vedas*).

In the afternoons use the throat for madhyama and in the evenings use the top of the head for the tAra.

*- based on my music lessons, there are three s’rutis. mandra, madhya and tAra which are low, medium and high. Your sa -pa – sa is your madhya sthayi. Notes below the low first sa are mandra sthayi and notes abouve the high sa are tAra sthayi. – when you sing in each sthayi, put your hand on your chest throat and top of your skull, and you can understand what Panini is saying – Satya-*

*———————————————–*

*udAtta, anudAtta and svarita are 3 kinds of svarAs.*

*hrasva, dIrgha and pluta are three kinds of kAlAs.*

In udAtta niSAda gAndhAra, in anudAtta RSabha, dhaivata., svarita to be produced in Sadja, madhyama and pancama.

—————————————————————————————————————————————–

8 places of varNas are aamura, throat, top of head, root of tongue, teeth, nose, lips, palate.

<http://satyaveda.wordpress.com/2010/04/23/panini-siksa-1/>

  

2010/10/14 S. Kalyanaraman \<[kaly...@gmail.com]()\>



