+++
title = "011 Roland Steiner"

+++
[[Roland Steiner	2019-08-14, 13:08:28 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/PISWdRjpOpk)]]



  
The following link to the largest up-to-date online dictionary of  
Sanskrit (NWS = "Nachtragswörterbuch des \[= supplemental dictionary  
of\] Sanskrit") may be of interest to some members of this list:  
  
<http://nws.uzi.uni-halle.de/search?lang=en>  
  
Short Description  
  
"The data presented here form a cumulative supplemental dictionary of  
Sanskrit, where the results from lexicographical works postdating the  
smaller Petrograd dictionary of Otto Böhtlingk (pw) and the addenda by  
Richard Schmidt (Schmidt) are collected in the form of brief  
quotations. These were glossaries added to editions of texts as well  
as specialized dictionaries. Glossaries that were obviously not up to  
standard were excluded. The sources quoted are abbreviated, but never  
modified or harmonized. Testimonia in these quotations are not updated  
(for instance, by referring to more recent editions) and only one per  
meaning was given. The quotations were also not translated and not all  
testimonia could be checked in detail. Obvious errors and misprints  
were silently corrected. The NWS gives access to a large body of  
lexicographical material, but does not completely supersede the  
glossaries that are its source.  
  
The NWS is also neither a new unified dictionary nor a complete  
thesaurus of quotations, nothing of the sort could be attempted in the  
three years of its funding. However, we believe that it may greatly  
facilitate future efforts in these directions, for it accomplishes a  
radical expansion of our knowledge of Sanskrit lexicography: The NWS  
contains 107553 entries—the pw has ca. 150000, Schmidt ca. 12000—which  
are as a rule new lemmata, new meanings, or new testimonia not found  
in pw and Schmidt, or indeed Monier-Williams, which very rarely goes  
beyond the pw."  
  
  
For a more detailed description see:  
  
<http://nws.uzi.uni-halle.de/description?lang=en>  
  
Best,  
  
R. Steiner  
  

