+++
title = "000 Damodara Dasa"

+++
[[Damodara Dasa	2018-06-10, 09:41:05 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/WN5Ae0GuqFI)]]



\|\| Hare Krishna \|\|  
  
Respected Vidvaj-janas,  
  
I am now in deity worship and cleanliness/purity topic in my research  
for varnasrama.  
  
At our vedic village community, we have a small temple and deities. We  
are gradually trying to increase standards and reach the traditional  
standards and methods as was being followed in different well known  
temples. The rules needed are very detailed and according to  
Medhatithi, rules in such details can be known only through parampara  
(sad-AcAra) and are not to be found in sastras.  
  
Thus, besides visiting different sampradayas, I am in need of a  
book/books on ritual purity and cleanliness standards manual in  
traditional temple worship.  
  
\[FOLLOWING POINTS ARE NOT FOR DISCUSSING IN THIS FORUM BUT\]  
Just so that you get an idea of how detail we are looking at,  
following are some of the hundreds of points we have:  
  
1. Say I am a pujari. I must take bath after evacuating. Now, after  
taking bath, if I touch a person who has not taken bath, according to  
tradition I have to take bath again. This I know. But what about the  
clothes that I wore? Do I need to give those clothes up and wear  
another fresh set, or just taking bath and wearing the same pair of  
clothes will do? Or is there some simpler procedure to purify these  
clothes? Same is my question regarding eating?  
  
2. What if, after taking bath, I touch contaminated beddings? Should I  
take bath? Also what about clothes I am wearing?  
  
3. What level of purity a person plucking flowers for the Lord should  
follow? Should he take bath before going to pluck flowers? Is the  
level of purity needed for flower plucker same as that of pujari?  
  
4. Similar things about cooks and vessel cleaners for the Lord.  
  
THIS WAS JUST FOR IDEA. I DO NOT EXPECT TO HAVE DISCUSSIONS ON THESE  
POINTS, but that if some of the members here have some idea of a  
book/books on these topics and practices it will be very helpful.  
  
Thankyou,  
Hari Guru Vaisnava Das,  
Damodara Das  

