+++
title = "009 B.N. Patnaik"

+++
[[B.N. Patnaik	2010-08-19, 12:53:32 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/On1OiyueeS0)]]



Dear Scholars,

I have a querry about the notion of "bhuta" ("ghost"), and will be  
grateful to you for information and insight in this regard.

\(a\) Is "ghost" the correct equivalent of "bhuta" ("bhut" or "bhoot"),  
setting aside for this purpose, the concepts of "Shiva's ghosts" and "The  
Holy Ghost"?

(b)Is the popular concept of a ghost who takes revenge on someone for a  
wrong done to him or her when alive, not a western concept or a concept  
from some other culture that has come to our own? Amba took revenge on  
Bhishma, but not as a ghost. Going by my study of Odia (earlier written as  
"Oriya")Mahabharatas and Ramayanas, I can say that this is the norm (of  
revenge taking)in the puranas.

(c)Similarly, isn't the following idea of a ghost also of some foreign  
origin: a ghost who lives in a particular space, say, a house(haunted  
house)because he or she lived in that place when alive, and was deeply  
attached to it?

(d)Or is it the case that "bhuta" in the above sense was a category of  
existence in some low brow sub-stream in our own philosophico-theological  
tradition? And this, not some comparable notion in some other tradition,  
is then the basis of the popular notion of bhuta?

With best regards,  
B.N.Patnaik

--  
Retired Professor of English and Linguistics  
Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur

Current Address:

8601, Sobha Daffodil Apartments  
Somasundara Palya  
HSR Layout  
Sector II  
Bangalore - 560102  
Phone: 080 - 42083143

  
Alternative Email: [bn.pa...@gmail.com]()

Blog: <http://saralamahabharat.blogspot.com>  
<http://linktopatnaik.blogspot.com>  
Website: <http://bnpatnaik.wordpress.com>

