+++
title = "006 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2013-02-06, 23:01:37 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/8iV6JMZiDew)]]



Namaskar Dr Kulkarni:  
  
Thanks for sharing your observations. What concerns is if the student does not have a Masters in Sanskrit then he/she will not be able to do a Ph.D. in Sanskrit.  
  
IMO - Not allowing interdisciplinary pool only results in "In-Breeding" and rigid molding of thoughts.  
  
I recall having seen a Ph.D. Thesis in Marathi where the candidate just published the "Unpublished Works" of his Guru, and that too without any commentary or notes, but he still got a Ph.D. degree.  
  
If present day institution heads do not acknowledge this then there will be no hope for any further exploration in any field.  
  
One can never forget that it is the application in real life that always remain of the forefront. I look at it as "Algebra" and "Geometry" are important in their own right, but the real application of these subjects is what makes Engineering more important for the Society.  
  
Best Rgds,  
  
Dr Yadu  

>  style="font-family:times new roman,new york,times,serif;font-size:12pt"> >
>  style="font-family:times new roman,new york,times,serif;font-size:12pt"> >
> 
> > ------------------------------------------------------------------------ >
> **From:** Dr. Tirumala Kulakarni \<[tkula...@gmail.com]()\>  
> **To:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
> **Sent:** Wednesday, February 6, 2013 2:23 AM  
> **Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} संस्कृत कोशग्रन्थानाम् > अध्ययनम्  
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 



>  style="font-family:times new roman,new york,times,serif;font-size:12pt"> >
>  style="font-family:times new roman,new york,times,serif;font-size:12pt"> >
> 
> > --  
> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
> to subscribe go to the link below and put a request  
> <https://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat/subscribe>  
> To unsubscribe from this group, send email to  
> [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]()  
>   
> ---  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> > 
> > 
> > 

>  style="font-family:times new roman,new york,times,serif;font-size:12pt"> >
>  style="font-family:times new roman,new york,times,serif;font-size:12pt"> >
> 
> > Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat?hl=en>. >
> 
> > 
> > 



