+++
title = "009 Dr. Tirumala Kulakarni"

+++
[[Dr. Tirumala Kulakarni	2013-02-11, 18:02:55 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/8iV6JMZiDew)]]



Dears  
  

On Mon, Feb 11, 2013 at 3:06 PM, narayanan er \<[drerna...@yahoo.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> > 
> > 
> > Let one learn Sanskrit fundamentals to have the Kavyavyutpatti rather > than or even if having certificates irrespective of humanities and > science. There should be an environment like that. Like the > Spoken-Sanskrit courses popular it is the high time for the free > fundamental training in Kavyas, in various Sastra Texts etc.  
> > 
> > 
> > 

  

We, some people working in the field of NLP (Natural Language Processing) have developed a outline of a new scheme. It is called \`Sanskrit for Vedanta'. It could be extended to any other field.

  

Please see the attachment. It is the paper presented recently in

[TABLE]



> 
> > 
> > 
> > In my humble opinion: Why do we take pain (or to enjoy in taking > pain-श्रमसाध्या विद्या) to learn Sanskrit fundamentals? Because of > that we are being the Indians, if we let it loose, no others will take > care of Sanskrit.  
> > 
> > 
> > 

  

This new method reduces the span of learning the fundamentals and almost removes the language barrier.

  

You may be shocked to know that 7 sandhis cover 95% of normal Sanskrit text! (As per statistics of 5 Vedanta texts taken for study.) Among them 45% is Visargasandhi! I have taught four IT people of 30+ age. After the proposed fundamental teaching they are able to understand each and every word of a Vedanta text.

  

TK

  

> 
> > Regards,  
> Narayanan
> > >  > style="font-family:garamond,new york,times,serif;font-size:14pt"> > > > >  > style="font-family:times new roman,new york,times,serif;font-size:12pt"> > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > 

  

