+++
title = "004 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2011-09-05, 19:53:07 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/8RHcCFCSS-4)]]



Namaste:

  

I think Dr. Narayan Joshi is looking at the connection between "hera.mba" and "GaNesha".

  

I have come across a reference from Skanda puraana (3.2.12.20-21), which states that gajaasura, the Son mahiShaasura (slain by the goddess Durga) as the source for head. This also establishes demonic (asuraa) lineage of vinaayaka.  

(REQUEST: Can some one confirm the above quoted reference as it has obtained from a secondary source and I have not been able to confirm from the original text.).

  

This establishes the link between hera.mba and gaNesha. The name "dvaimaatura" (having two mothers) is also an important clue. GaNeha being a-yonika has two motheres (1) paarvati (2) Shjiva who attaches a new head and brings him to life.

  

Another interesting clue comes from Vaamana puraaNa that whjere Shiva explains the derivation of term "vinaayaka" to paarvati.  

  

naauakeNa vinaa devi tava bhuuto.api putrakaH\|  
yasmaajjaatastato naamnaa bhaviShyati vinaayakaH \|\| vaamana puraaNa 28. 71-72\|\|  

  

ShrividyaarNavatantra furnishes following details regarding how to prepare hera.mba statue.

1\. It must have five head decorated with pearls.

2\. It must be depicted as chandra-kalaa-dhara.

3\. He is supposed to be riding a lion.

4\. He must have ten hands. Eight of them hold (trishuula, a.nkusha, aksha-maalaa, mudgala, muNDa, T.nka, and remaining two portrays abhaya and daana mudraa).

  

The Kumarasvaami (kaartikeya) temple near Sondura in Karnataka there is a hera.mba statue.  

  

Hope this helps,

  

Best regards,

  

Dr. Yadu  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**From:** iragavarapu narasimhacharya \<[insac...@gmail.com]()\>  
**To:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
**Sent:** Sunday, September 4, 2011 9:27 PM  
**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Epithets of Ganesha  



