+++
title = "002 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2014-06-09, 07:45:26 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/t4ErsfT9AA8)]]



Namaste,

  

To write additional information after Professor Korada's posting is like trying to shine a Candle in the bright Sunlight.  

  

Apart from the important information shared, I would like to add my perspective of "TWO Cents".

patanjali yogasuutra gives a us an important clue about the effective use of mantra

  

tajjapastadarthabhaavanam.h .. 28..

  

This suggests and elaborates the meaning of the terum "japa", which is merely no just a recitation of phrase but the the objective is to understand the real meaning of the "mantra". (thru dhyaa, dhaaraNaa, nidhidhyaasana .... etc.)

  

There is a famous shloka that stresses the importance of understanding the meaning rather than just mechanical recitations without understanding.  

  

(Can some one give me the exact reference for the following shloka ?)  

  

mantraarthaM mantracaitanyaM yo na jaanaati saadhakaH \|  
shatalaxaprajapto.api tasya mantro na siddhyati \|\|

  
Meaning (Liberal) - A mantra does not attain its potency even when one recites mantra for millions of time without knowing the meaning and the significance of that mantra.

  

Hope that this line of thinking may help in any personal upaasanaa.

  

With best regds

  

Dr Yadu

  

>  style="font-family:HelveticaNeue,Helvetica Neue,Helvetica,Arial,Lucida Grande,sans-serif;font-size:12pt"> >
>  style="font-family:HelveticaNeue,Helvetica Neue,Helvetica,Arial,Lucida Grande,sans-serif;font-size:12pt"> >
> 
> > ------------------------------------------------------------------------ >
> **From:** Subrahmanyam Korada \<[kora...@gmail.com]()\>  
> **To:** "[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()" > \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
> **Sent:** Sunday, June 8, 2014 9:16 AM  
> **Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Mantra Book  
> > 
> > 
> > 



