+++
title = "010 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2014-06-16, 06:47:54 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/t4ErsfT9AA8)]]



June 5, 2014



Dear Rani S. Murty and other scholars of Mantra shaastra on BVP

Thanks for your scientific posting on Mantra shaastra. Since you are store of knowledge on this subject, please help me to understand the meanings of

(1) During Satyanarayan pooja, the Yajamaana performs Digbandha. In that procedure he says “Netratrayaaya Vaus’at and then Astraaya phat.

What is the significance and meanings of that?

(2) During the Phalashruti of Ganapati Atharva sheers’a, it is recited, “Sooryagrahe mahaanadyaam pratimaa sannidhau vaa japtvaa sidhamantro bhavati”.

Are there examples of devotees who experienced the effect of proving the mantra through this ritual?

I appreciate your input. Mantra shaastra is so dear to many of us and in particular Ganapathi Atharvasheers’a. Thanks. N. R. Joshi.



-------------------------------------------------------





**Dr. Rani Sadasiva Murty**

On Tuesday, 10 June 2014 7:59 AM, Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop) \<[sastr...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

  
  

Namaste



My observations on : ( Surely new mantra / custom mantras can be formulated provided one knows the Mantra-Yoga method of studying –practicing Samskrutham. Unfortunately the Sanskrit crowd opinion is against this exploration! To expect a historic veda-mantra to give a current healing without ‘ breathing prana-life in to it’ is like expecting falling and touching at the feet of a dead body and expecting the life to be rejuvenated ! 



Coming to specifics in the posts:



On \< Beejaakshara formulations and other such mantra \> + \< Mantras not limited to Veda mantras (discussed by Pujya Aachaarya Korada).
\> + \< understanding the meaning rather than just mechanical recitations without understanding \>



1. \<Amantram aksharam naasti> - Every sound can be converted and used as a ‘ Mantra’ under specific context. What is the limitation ? \< Yojakah tatra durlabhah>. The Mantra debate will not work with the written books and scholarly discussions on whether panchadshi should be fifteen letters and how these fifteen should be counted ?What happens if the order is changed et al.



2. \< Mantra-brahmanayoh veda-naamdheyam> - The original reference and usage of the word ‘ mantra’ is in the context of Veda. Unless one understands and gets clear on mantra in Veda -format and Mantra in local language format, there may not be any possibility of progress here. The remembrance of famous stories of reversed pronunciation of \< Rama as Ma-ra by Valmiki \> and Kanakadasa story \< Kurubanige Kona mantra \>?! Is only to make a pointer on this issue.



3. Works on Tantra provide several mantra –formulations . How does one get on to test these ? Unless one has the basic clarity on sounds and healing energy ? Read the book – Yoga of Sound’ by Russil Paul <http://www.russillpaul.com/yogaofsound.html> .



New Mantras like ‘ Om namah Christaaya namah Shivaaya’ have been created and are floating around in circulation ! There are enough tantric gurus selling mantras on fancy terms and formulations.



4.So much to say on how the great language of ‘Samskrutham’ which cares about the ‘ specificity of one single accent change in Mantra-Chandas-Veda resulting in a disaster as in the story of Indra shatro vardhasva’ has lent itself to mutations and mutilated deliberations.



I wonder What ever happened to the caution provided by Patanjali on the section addressing : Duahstah Shabdah svarato varnato vaa, mithya prayukto na tamartham aaha, sa vaagvajro yajamaanam hinasti, yathendrashatruh, svaratoparaadhaat’ ??





Regards

BVK Sastry



--  

निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
---  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.



