+++
title = "035 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-03-15, 01:13:49 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/9wFUYo8abFM)]]



Namaste KSK



1. I am not attacking you or defending any one; no personal attacks or animosities. It is a pure simple ‘ issue based exchange of ideas’.
Let us not make this debate a person related comment. Here the focus is on ‘Integrity of text, pedagogy of language tools, rules and standards used for extracting the literal string meaning of the given expression.



2. You think \< I do not read mails carefully> . Please let me know and help me correct myself if I have missed anything of significance in this thread, or if I have asked any unrelated questions.



 I have not seen response to the key point I asked: why Samskruth Vyakarana is Vedanga and Pada-shaastra together ! Is this also not a fit case for testing application of \< स्थितस्य गतिः चिन्तनीया
\> ??





3. On \<paraphrasing Shankaras position> : A straight question : Has any Acharya of Vedanta school ( or traditional commentator of repute)
made an observation accusing \< vyakarana dosha in shruti> ? Has any acharya positioned \< Vedanga Vyakarana as a higher order language interpretation tool over the direct Shruti> ? Please don’t quote me ‘ translations’ .



I am aware that all acharyas have their ‘bent backwards explanation on select ‘Chaadasa passages’.; All of them have struggled to meddle with the given passage using intricacies of Paninian rules to justify their preferred darshanas.



While this process of ‘Grammar play and twists’ are well known , the question I am repeating is : Has any Acharya of any Vedanta darshana school made a suggestion to ‘ alter/ amend shruti based on Vyakarana Sutras and make ‘apashabda corrections ? Or provide alternate reading to shruti ? A thought confidently suggested in the post line \< The Upanishads **should have said either** tAm yogam manyante or tAm yoga iti manyante. \>.



When the statement is made \< all Vedic commentators have struggled with \< **abundant grammatical deviations in the Vedic literature**\> - What does it translate and point to ? Vedas have ‘ apa-shabdas ‘ as they do not fit in to the known frame of Paninian grammar ? Or there is no known grammar rule to explain the given form, and therefore the label is made ‘ chaandasa’/ Aarsha ( = Coming from a Rushi) and therefore it is valid form, it is a ‘ Visioned Expression ( Mantra, a Darshana- Shruti). Did Patanjali in Mahabhashya any where cite that ‘Veda’s carry apa-Shabdas’ and therefore ‘ Vyakarana should be used to correct Veda’ ? What is the Patanjali’s position on Vyakarana serving the goal of ‘ Protecting Vedas’ ( rakshaartham vedanam adhyeyam vyakaranam ?? \>
If one were to observe Panini’s work and tradition, sixty percent or more of the text aims to explain Vedic words and accents. Has anyone said the major thrust of Paninian grammar was to address ‘Vedic apashabdas’ as bulk of the work deals with such nuances ? 



When it comes to ‘ Shruti’, AND the position of traditional school is considered, the accepted position by all Acharyas is same : Shruti is to be accepted as ‘ Shruta – Sthita’.



4. On \< Actually he is attacking Shankara..> : Here the focus is on the given nyaya expression, context of its application and
understanding it. Every nyaya has a relevant application protocol.
Unless this ground is clear, the next step of connecting it to any school of darshana/philosophy will not arise. 



I am well aware of the schools and scholars who do not subscribe to this view. I am also aware that schools and scholar who take partial or preferential advantage of the Paninian grammar. Has any acharya mentioned that Upanishads have grammatical deviations? and called it a flaw ( dosha of pada or vakya) ? Has any Acharya in any other context given any statement that ‘Shruti/ Upanishad has a grammatical deviation’ ? Has any Acharya in any other context suggested alternate reading and improvisation of Shruti/ Upanishad literal string using the framework of grammar ? to my limited knowledge of reading and referencing, I have not come across any such noting. Even the famous issue of ‘ accent variation’ in a ‘ mahavakya’ which is the bone of contention between two major Vedanta schools does not recommend any alternate reading. What is suggested logically, linguistically, grammatically and philosophically acceptable explanation.



Grammatical deviation is ‘ Apa-Shabda’ and dosha. Shruti/ Upanishad is ‘ Chaandasa’ and ‘ accepted as given’ . What does the statement \< \< the grammatical deviation here in the Upanis"ad.> translate to ? 



5. My intention was to reinstate the traditional position and axioms over which the position is built. It is ‘ Tree and root together’ ( vruksha and moola ) approach. One may show alternative ways of explaining the traditional position, and in the process, totally violate the dictums of ‘ traditional axioms’. In this context, it means explaining the intent of a document marked as ‘ Language: samskruth’ and violating the ‘ language norms’. The justification that we also come to the same conclusion does not cut the ice.



What then is tradition of Samskrutam- language interpretation and pedagogy ? It is a ‘ vi-karana and aa-karana’- Shaastra’ guidance
on what is the language of ‘Shruti’, what constitutes a ‘Pada’ under Chnadas and Bhashaa. The total rule set of ‘ Chandas and Bhashaa’ is unified as ‘Vedanga’ and ‘ Pada-Shaastra’ to work together as Vak-Yoga and applied in ‘ yajnika vidhi’ (Vedic ritual) in association will other allied disciplines like Shikshaa , Nirukta, Kalpa and Jyotisha. This traditional position ‘ ***Sthita***’ - cannot be violated to interpret any given expression associated with the
language tag described as : ‘Samskrutham’.



Signing off with a modified form of the expression below \< A worrisome case verily of**gatasya sthitiH cintanIyA**!> which seems to have sidelined Mahabhashyakara Patanjali’s authentic citations and the sound traditional interpretation anchor as to ‘ use of Vyakarana’ to defend Veda. Rearticulating of issue would be reading like **\<** देशान्तरं कालान्तरं स्थित्यन्तरं गतस्य वेदस्य स्थितिः चिन्तनीया

**dēśāntaraṁ kālāntaraṁ sthityantaraṁ gatasya vēdasya sthitiḥ
cintanīyā >**





Here is a fit case for Shishtas from Vyakarana to deliberate \< swa-deshi – bhashaa - sampradaya> where उप-स्थितस्य सं-गतिः
वि-चिन्तनीया - upa-sthitasya saṁ-gatiḥ vi-cintanīyā. .



Regards

BVK Sastry







**From:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() \[mailto:[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\] **On Behalf Of** K S Kannan  
**Sent:** Wednesday, 14 March, 2018 1:13 PM  
**To:** bvparishat  
**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} स्थितस्य....



Dr BVK Sastry is struggling hard to convince all that he does not read mails carefully.







  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().

  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.



--  

You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  

To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().



