+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-10-29, 21:47:17 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/9dgK3sxtxkY)]]



From: Basas25 \<[bas...@soton.ac.uk]()\>  
  
BASAS 25 Conference  
University of Southampton, 11-13 April 2011.  
  
Please forward this to any of your academic/Ph.D student contacts who may be interested in participating. Thank you.  
  
Bodies of Power, Forms of Power:South Asiathrough History and Across Disciplines: Who holds power in South Asia? Who holds power in relation to South Asia and the South Asian diaspora? How is power embodied, how is it wielded, and to what ends? Where is power located, how is it accessed, how is it articulated, and how is it signified? Who submits to power, who ignores power, and who resists power? How is power formed, how is it performed, and in what forms and through what bodies is it negotiated?

  
The 2011, 25th anniversary annual BASAS (British Association of South Asian Studies) conference aims to lay bare the diverse and complex ways in which power is and has been negotiated in theSouth Asia region. Through the key terms of 'bodies' and 'forms', we aim to encourage interdisciplinary conversations about the ways in which power is understood, endorsed and undermined in both everyday lives, and at fraught moments of South Asian history.  
  
We invite proposals for panels and papers that address Bodies of Power, Forms of Power at personal, local, state and inter-state levels within South Asia and across its diaspora. Panels and papers might be keyed around issues of community, class, caste, ethnicity, gender; nation, governance, law; geography, development, culture, environment; language, linguistics and representation.  
  
Conference Dates: April 11th-13th  
  
Panel Submission Details  
Panels (150-200 word abstact)  
  
\*    Submission of panel abstracts:November 15, 2010  
\*    Notification of acceptance of panels:December 1, 2010  
\*    Submission of paper abstracts for panels: January 31, 2010  
\*    Final confirmation of panels: February 28, 2010  
  
Independent Papers (100-150 word abstract)  
\*    Submission of paper abstracts for panels: January 31, 2010  
\*    Final confirmation of panels: February 28, 2010  
  
Registration Deadline: March 15, 2010  
  
Conference Organizers: Dr. Kanchana N. Ruwanpura, Professor Ian Talbot and Dr.Stephanie Jones(contact e-mail[bas...@soton.ac.uk]()\<mailto:[bas...@soton.ac.uk]()\> and contact person: Mr. Justyn Willsmore)

