+++
title = "012 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2011-11-25, 21:37:06 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/iv0UQgLaFgg)]]



pranamaaH.



In translation, irrespective ot the target language, the communication will be complete only when the intended meaning alone is conveyed; and not otherwise. The question was to know the equivalents of filter and host; without the context. For example, for water purification, the jewl filters use successive layers of charcoal,sand and alum as filters. The word chalanee is inappropriate. There are many types of filters - for solids, liquids and gases.



Even if the target language is sanskrit, we had chemistry in sanskrit, have ayurveda in sanskrit; where use of several filters are essential. Further, one who would ask for the equivalents, being a member of the vidvat parishat will not be so ignorant as not to know the common word chalanee. In my opinion a language grows only with the growth in the variety of applications.



the Dhatukosha gives umpteen no. of Dhatus, for example,with explanation of Gatau. It does not explain what type of gati it stands for. The authors of those texts, did not expand the meanings, because during their time sanskrit was spoken, and everybody knew the connotations of each dhatu. but today, we do not have a complete picture of which dhatu stands for what type of gati. Though outwardly all those dhatus appear synonymous, they cannot be. That is how a language dies by disuse.so in my humble opinion, we should try to get at the specific meaning of each dhatu to signify the exact sense. Else, we end upwith translations of yagna as sacrifice as bali; which distort for example Bhagavadgita, which refers to different types of yagnas.



Indeed this question begs the attention of all linguists and researchers, who want to make sanskrit a spoken language. As a researcher myself, I find that many words are misunderstood and misinterpreted by many scholars, and that the scientific treasure inherent in the Vedas have been ignored. It is in this background that I ventured to make the suggestions.------srk  
  

2011/11/24 Hnbhat B.R. \<[hnbh...@gmail.com]()\>  







