+++
title = "005 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2012-03-20, 18:15:03 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/R6rKuJIxoLc)]]



Respected Arun,



Grossly agreed. But the fundamental question is what happens to the energy. What I have stated is that the energy may find another shell or form of refuge, or remain in the energy state itself. And nobody still knows how may photons constitute life. You have spoken of millions, and that is from the wikipaedia, which is not as reliable as from your lab. It may be only a few photons or may be milions as you say. Possible.



I would postulate thus. A life may cosist of photons of energy, the no. varying from 1 to x, x being a large number. Where it is just 1, we may call that life a microcosm. If that were to be, say a thousand, a millicosm, and so on. Then, it is this number that determines the capabilities of the manifest life. So for Arjuna, it was a possibly a few million photons and so forth.



Now the theory of conservation of mass and energy, you consider gross.

Even the quantum theories are no more accurate; though considered less grosser than the proven theory of conservation of mass and energy.



When Dr.Ashtekar, of the International Institute of Geometry, one of quartet working on the subject of big bang and a Nobel aspirant, addressed the Indian Academy of Science in the Indian Institute of Science, a couple of years back,claimed that his group has almost found all the answers about the big bang, he could not answer several of my objections thereto. But I do wish him all success; and I shall be proud if he wins a Nobel.



I do agree with Arun's postulation that all the photons that constitutes a particular life may not go as one unit into another form, because of the possibilities of diffusion. That is why reincarnations are rare. But statistically it cannot be ruled out; especially since we are all still in the dark about the exact nature and the process of transmigration of life.



Today the medical science has accepted as clinically proven the parapsychological incidences of rebirth. Until the physicistsable todisprove the physicians, there is no alternative to accepting rebirth or reincarnation of life as a fact; that is a life in its totality migrating into another shell. And we cannot therefore dismiss the theory of conservation of mass and energy which is still a proven reality.



s.r.krishna murthy.



