+++
title = "017 Dr. P. Ramanujan"

+++
[[Dr. P. Ramanujan	2017-04-04, 11:13:23 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/GU0UfsKuFh4)]]



कार्ष्मर्यो नाम यज्ञियवृक्षविशेषः वेदेषु श्रुतः ।

पुष्कलतया तद्वत्त्वात् काष्मीर नाम युज्यते वा इति काचित् मनीषा ।



रामानुजः  

On April 4, 2017 at 10:16 AM Nityanand Misra \<[nmi...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:

> 
> >   
>   
> On Tuesday, 4 April 2017 11:53:19 UTC+8, Suresh Kolichala wrote: >
> 

> 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Dear Vidwan Nagaraj-ji, > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > As I said, it is difficult to trace the etymologies of some of these > > geographical terms, as they may belong to long lost aboriginal > > languages of India -- from the pre-IE, pre-Dravidian linguistic > > strata (what I call a Niṣādic substrate) about which we have almost > > no knowledge, other than some intractable toponyms, hydronyms and > > ethnonyms. As I said, what etymology do we assign to the terms such > > as: hammīra ( हम्मीर = of a king of Śākam-bharī ), samīra ( समीर > > = of a people),timīra (तिमीर),kirmīra ( किर्मीर = Rākshasa or > > goblin conquered by Bhīma-sena ), karmīra ( कर्मीर) etc? > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Regards, > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Suresh. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Thanks to Shrikant Jamadagni Ji, L Srinivas Ji, Hardik Joshi Ji, > Shatavadhani Galu, Prof. Kannan, and Prof. Paturi for their kind > comments. >
> 
> > Our friend Dmitri Semenov asked if a derivation with two suffixes > “-mi” and “-ra” was ever proposed. I have not come across any such > derivation. Other list members may enlighten if they have seen such a > derivation. >
> 
> > To Suresh Kolichala Ji, >
> 
> > You asked “have you considered …”. Let me clarify that I am not the > source of the etymology from the root “kash” that I mention in the > article. The etymology is from the Unadi Sutra and Sanskrit grammar > tradition. I do not know if they considered the other similar names or > not.It is possible that the word is what is called *avyutpanna*, > having no derivation. I have briefly touched this in the article where > I wrote:
> > “It may be argued that since words formed from Unadi Sutra-s are > considered to be ready-made by Panini,*kashmira* is really an > underived proper noun for which the author of Unadi Sutras traced the > most similar-sounding root.”
> > If this view is taken then any Sanskrit etymology is fanciful indeed > and there is no point in even attempting. However, the name may also > be a Sanskritized version of a previous name, in which case the way > Sanskrit sources derive the name becomes critical for our > consideration.
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > However, the focus of the article is not on whether the name is > derived or underived, but rather on how Kashmir is derived in the > tradition of Sanskrit grammar, and it is clear that for more than > 2,500 years, the word has been considered as derived in a specific way > in Sanskrit. This is why I wrote (italics for emphasis): >
> 
> > “what is certain is that *if an etymology of Kashmir from a Sanskrit > word or root is to be considered at all*, it must be in accordance > with Sanskrit etymological and grammatical sources.” >
> 
> > 
> > I have already mentioned my reasons to favour the Unadi Sutra > etymology over the popular etymologies by Wilson, Vigne, etc. and the > ‘folk etymology’ (Ka = water + shimir = dessicate). >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Regarding non-Sanskrit languages, they may certainly be explored but > are there sufficient textual sources that mention/derive the word > Kashmira prior to Unadi Sutras (\~ 500 BCE)? >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > --  

> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  

> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  

> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  

> For more options, visit [**MailScanner has detected definite fraud in > the website at "groups.google.com". Do *not* trust this website:** > https://groups.google.com/d/optout](https://groups.google.com/d/optout).

  


  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
\[ C-DAC is on Social-Media too. Kindly follow us at:  
Facebook: <https://www.facebook.com/CDACINDIA> & Twitter: @cdacindia \]  
  
This e-mail is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may  
contain confidential and privileged information. If you are not the  
intended recipient, please contact the sender by reply e-mail and destroy  
all copies and the original message. Any unauthorized review, use,  
disclosure, dissemination, forwarding, printing or copying of this email  
is strictly prohibited and appropriate legal action will be taken.  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

