+++
title = "022 KN.Ramesh"

+++
[[KN.Ramesh	2017-04-20, 14:16:28 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/GU0UfsKuFh4)]]



From<https://groups.google.com/d/msg/samskrita/NrALnwbKXu4/TQM2Yr_eEgAJ>

  

Quote:

### **Origins of Kashmir as per mythology**

The Kashmiri tradition holds that the region was once a great lake by name Sati-saras. It was the lake (saras) in which young Sati Devi (Goddess Uma when born as the daughter of Daksha) would bathe and sport in. Later on, the Naga-s, born of Kashyapa Prajapati, populated these waters.

  

Apparently there suddenly rose in these waters an asura by name Jalodbhava (“born in water”). He had a boon that he could not be destroyed in water, and therefore began to persecute the Nagas in impunity. At this, and there are two stories beyond this point, the Naga-s appealed to their patriarch Sage Kashyapa, who by His powers of penance dried the region thereby rendering the asura powerless and easy to conquer. As “Kashyapa” caused this land to relatively become a “Maru” (desert, in compared to the entire area being under water before), it came to be called “Kashyapa-Maru” which transformed into “Kashmira”.

Another account says that the Nagas appealed to Vishnu, Shiva and Ambika. Taking pity on them, Shiva created a path for the water to drain away from the region by the edge of a great plough (or the tip of His bow the Pinaka). Even then, the asura by his powers of illusion, would fly here and there when attacked. To prevent this, the Devi took the form of a mynah (Hari in Kashmiri) and dropped a stone on him, which prevented him from flying. Vishnu then beheaded him with His discus.

\[It is interesting to note that even in modern geography, they say that in very ancient times, towards the north of India was a great lake by name Tethys Sea which slowly drained away as a result of geological shifts in the Himalayan region.\]

  

The Devi who took a form of a Hari then came to rest in a hill in Kashmir, which came to be called Hari Parbat. She is manifested in the form of a Shrichakra on the rock-face of this hill, and the place is called Chakreshvari Peetham. This is one of the numerous Shakti Peethams in Kashmir. Due to the importance of the Devi manifested in the Shrichakra, the city that developed around this kshetra became to be called Shri-nagara. As the bird Hari is also known as Sharika, the Devi here is known as Sharika Devi, and is the presiding family deity to many Kashmiri Hindu families.

  

Once the water had been drained for vanquishing the asura, the Nagas were no longer able to live in physical form as before, and therefore took a subtle form and entered the various water sources underground. Thus every spring is called a “Nag” in Kashmir. The villagers would use river water for bathing, washing etc, but for cooking and drinking they would only use the sweet water of the Nag after doing puja to the Naga deity. As a result of the draining of water many learned people from all around came to the region and settled there, enamoured by the natural beauty and peace that prevailed in this place. It was also the favourite haunt of many sages doing their penance. Thus was the settlement of Kashmir in times long gone.



