+++
title = "045 P.V. NARAYANAN"

+++
[[P.V. NARAYANAN	2017-06-07, 00:44:59 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/q2vc7z-K9j0)]]



Dear scholars

I may be pardoned for posting a ‘long story’ here. Also, I may be permitted to take liberty to explain my position in my earlier posts, and also to respond to some comments.

I’m utmost happy to know that majority of the members in this group are ardent followers of the ‘cow worship culture’, and I appreciate the commitment shown by them through criticizing my stance in the issue.

I wish and expect that they will show the same vigour in the fight against other issues that ruin this country and humiliate us before the world. These issues include poverty, unemployment, destruction of environment, scarcity of water for poor people, lack of value for agricultural products, corruption, casteism, riots, terrorism, racial and regional discrimination and very many others. (As per a study conducted last week by a global agency, in the Global Peace Index, India is rated137^(th) amongst the 163 countries. Similarly in many other Indices our place is above 100, perhaps except in population!)
Unfortunately, all these issues which are to be paid great attention for the progress of the country, have now become irrelevant or secondary before the slogans of ‘gorakshaa’. And, in a country where billions of children and women are living in indescribable pathetic conditions ‘beef eating’ has become most prominent problem to be handled with utmost emergency. Millions of mothers –elder women- are abandoned in public places or dumped in orphanages is not a problem before it. Our intellectuals are worried of cows and are conspicuously silent or mischievously ignorant about these ‘cursed creatures’. Social compassion, concern for co-beings etc. are not great things for them to be bothered of. Protecting culture becomes protection of some ‘symbols’ alone! Thus ‘Culture’ is a mere show-off! During my classes/speeches, I constantly speak of the greatness of India’s culture. I’m taught by great traditional Sanskrit scholars who rightly imbibed the culture/multiculturalism of this glorious country. They had had a mind and vision not poisoned by rigid religiosity or religious politics.

   One member has* ‘surprised to see how a person can study the Sanskrit Sastras and divine Kavyas of our great Kavis and still show total insensitivity to the hurt feelings caused by Beef’ *Although I’m not a good scholar, I have been trying to be a good student of our cultural heritage throughout my life. Thus, I have the understanding that Sanskrit is not a language alone. It’s India’s life itself. It has been so for several millennia. It is this teaching and understanding that made me to take this position in the matters like this. Yeah, so I believe, cow has had great importance in the cultural, religious, agricultural, and economic history of India. People must have right to keep their religious belief intact if they wish so. BUT, it SHOULD NOT BE an act denying the rights of others. If the habit of eating beef is a culturally and historically evolved practice it should be given space in the society. When it is denied people naturally will protest in their own way. Students who uphold the democratic values also will participate in it. But, I strongly believe that the present ‘show off’ of ‘gorakshaa’ is HYSTERIA only. It’s a part of the political hysteria created and spread by the ultra right wing political movements. (I bow before the scholar who commented that studying alone is the duty of students. What would I say if a scholar who has minimum knowledge of history, especially of India’s freedom struggle, does not consider the Universities as the epi-centre of social /cultural changes!).

I’m not a member of any organization affiliated to CPI (M) or any other left party now. And, I have not taken part in any so called ‘beef fest’ until this day. (I do not consume beef, on my own reasons; not of ‘cultural’ or religious reasons). I too have some objections in the way of conducting certain protests against the anti-people decision/orders of the governments. But I respect and uphold the right of the people/students to mark their dissent and protest. I think, Mahatma Gandhi’s ‘Dandiyaatraa’ also is to be viewed from this point. (I’m afraid, if the things in our country are advancing in this manner, quoting Mahatma Gandhi also will soon become a punishable offence in India).

In a response to my comments, another member has said that Kerala is *‘**a place where indigenous breeds have been systematically exterminated…’* This is nothing but the refection of a comment recently made by an RSS leader who racially humiliated the South Indians referring to them as ‘black’ (hence apparently ugly) people. (Dear scholar, extermination/extinction happens not only in Kerala. Even Himalayan Valley faces great danger in many ways. If Environmental knowledge is not your concern at present, you may try to learn its lessons). Further’ online sites and information have their own vested interests. We must be very much cautious while resorting to them. In its absence, we would proclaim that some government institutions run with people’s money ‘are functioning with the fund of certain religious institutions like Matha-s’.

Somebody else mentioned that my reference to Sangh Parivar is ‘out of context’. I humbly request him to go through the posts which call for an intervention of ‘VHP, and saffron brigade’ in the matter.

Regarding the court verdict in the matter of ‘beef’;

Courts are not the place where the ‘ultimate truth’ is revealed. But, in a political system we are bound to respect and obey the decisions and orders of the court. A decision arrived at a particular court may be different when it comes before another court. Notably, the decision of the Hon. Tamil Nadu High Court is not the same as that of the Hon. Kerala High Court. I too respect and obey courts’ decisions. But, regarding the matter of discussion here, the truth is to be sought at a different terrain that too through different trajectories. Being impatient in this issue will make us intellectually patients.

Looking back into the responses in this discussion I sadly understand that most of the comments are emotional and they only reproduce the popular notions. Anyhow, thanks to all.

  

P.V. Narayanan.





