+++
title = "058 P.V. NARAYANAN"

+++
[[P.V. NARAYANAN	2017-06-08, 00:06:32 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/q2vc7z-K9j0)]]



Dear Members,

  

This mainly is a response to Sri. Gobind Medini's post which tries to justify Sri Tarun Vijay's words; Sri Medini quotes Sri Tarun Vijay;

"*If we were racist, why would have... all the entire south which is complete...you know Tamil. You know Kerala.You know Karnataka and Andhra. **Why do we live with them? We have black people around us...***" (Letters are bolded by me)

Please note Tarun Vijay's remark 'WE' and 'THEM'. Here the **'we'** is in the subject position and it is clear from it that this **'we'** is not the same 'we’ mentioned in the Preamble of our Constitution as 'We the people of India...'.

In his words **'We live with them**...', the '**they**' are explicitlydifferentfrom '**we**'. It evidently creates an ‘other’.

Psychologically this is a 'Freudian Slip'. This happens when someone wants to say something, her/his consciousnesstakes over and expresseswhat s/he really believes, and this will be just opposite to what s/he intended to say. And this slip is the truth s/he actually believes in.

This leads to the conclusion that the people referred to by the word '**we**' are forced to live with the 'other' '**them**'.And the **'we'** either may be the 'North Indians' or as the speaker being a top RSS leader **'we'** must be the members of Sangh Parivar!

And the **'they'** either are South Indians and people of North East India(i.e. the people living in the regions beyond the territory of so called Aaryaavarta)or the people who do not fall in the lines of Sangh Parivar. 

The same is the point in the case of ‘**We have black people around us...**". Any lay man can grasp its meaning. Here also the **black people** are obviously different from **us.**

Yeah, *'heapologizedfor his statement while admitting that his choice of words was wrong'.*

In fact he was compelled to apologize due to the strong opposition and protests raised from different walks of Indian life. And I agree, 'his choice of words was wrong', still his intentionwas right!

We must bear in mind that *"...people will forget what you said, people will forget what you did, but people will never forget how you made them feel."* (Maya Angelou).



This comment may be found as not pertaining to the basic issue of the thread. But, I would like to point out that this attitude is the real reason for banning consumption of beef and condemning the protests against it.

It is a matter of deep grief that the scholars and teachers and persons having constitutional powers such as judges and ministers who are supposed to take up the responsibility of inculcating scientific tempo in the society are spreading superstitions and sowing the venomous seeds of hatred for political gain.

Being a person of logical mind how can a scholar stand behind the ideology which propagates the ‘ideas’ such as ‘cow is the only animal to inhale and exhale oxygen’, cow’s milk can cure even terminal cancer, gold can be derived from cow dung, Cow is an animal that can convert the food taken as gold, peacocks are ‘brahmacharis’ and the hen becomes pregnant by consuming the male cock’s tears, our airplanes had been frequently servicing to other planets too even before 7000 years, the head of Gajaanana is a good evidence of the knowledge and skill that we hadacquiredin the field of limb-transplantation … etc. etc.! In fact, all these are very much inherent aspects of the issue being discussed here. The beef fest or any other show of dissent is not an isolated event. They are the invited responsesto the undemocratic and arbitraryorders of a government that shows the signs of authoritarianism.

It may also be said that taking scriptures alone as authority in the matters like this is highly untenable. Further, explanations and (mis)interpretations of the religious leaders of particular sects are not the basic data to be depended for analyzing and judging an issue which has multi-layer socio-cultural and historical connotations also.
But, unfortunately the members of this group unanimously seem to believe so, as there could not be seen any different view. I’m happy to see this ‘unity’.



Regards,

P.V. Narayanan.



