+++
title = "001 Dr. Tirumala Kulakarni"

+++
[[Dr. Tirumala Kulakarni	2012-09-14, 10:50:09 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/W4vuqGQx4mo)]]



Dear Kalivaradhan  
  
I am putting my personal views here.

  

On Fri, Sep 14, 2012 at 6:35 AM, FriendAtChennai YouMayKnow \<[kali...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  



> 
> > This forum aims to encourage Samskrita study and propagation by > exchanging views and news about samskritam. We have a membership of > more than 2000 persons from all walks of life.
> > 

  

It is great!



> 
> > We also scan the Net to seize info related to samskritam and publish > them in the forum only with the aim of propagating Samskrita Varta > from whichever quarter they originate. >
> 

  

Can you share links of your forum's earlier publishes? I also request you to share links of those news which are very important and have not appeared on BVP.



> 
> > Ours is not a forum dominated by samskrita scholars, and on the > contrary many members are just students. So, you may not see the kind > of scholarly discussions taking place on Samskrita grammar, > linguistics or literature or any sastras. >
> 

  

You need not feel \`sankocha' for that. You can find new possibilities by having such a great no of students. I personally request you to introduce them the online Sanskrit Computational tools beginning from <http://sanskrit.uohyd.ernet.in/scl> .

  

Thanks

TK

  

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Hopefully, you will consider my request favourably and accede to my > request and allow me to reproduce the Samskrita Varta in our forum > also. >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > dhanyavadaH >
> 
> > 
> > kalivaradhan >
> 
> > 
> > Moderator [Samskritabh...@yahoogroups.com]()  
>   
> --  
> > 

> 
> > Kalivaradhan >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > **" आ नो भद्राः क्रतवो यन्तु विश्वतः " ( ऋग्वेद १.८९ )** >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > **"Let Noble thoughts reach us from all directions! "** >
> 
> >   

> --  
> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
> to subscribe go to the link below and put a request  
> <https://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat/subscribe>  
> To unsubscribe from this group, send email to  
> [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]()  

  
  

  

--  
Dr. Tirumala Kulakarni  
Asst. Prof. Alankara Dept.  
Poornaprajna Vidyaapeetha  
Vidyapeetha Circle  
BANGALORE 560 028  
Ph: [+91 9448879734](tel:+91%2094488%2079734)  
  

