+++
title = "017 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2016-02-21, 03:56:39 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/4ZHPiE3Tu_I)]]



Feb 20, 2016



Dear Prof N. Paturi, Thanks for posting verses from Bhees'ma Parva. I read them.In my opinion they describe lands of the earth even outside of subcontinent. Now how do we know today the exact meaning of Bharata Vars'a as understood by the ancients of the time of composition of the Epic. Again there was Bharata khanda.In what ways Vars'a and Khanda are different? Please offer the ancient reference. Thanks N.R.Joshi

  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: Nagaraj Paturi \<[nagara...@gmail.com]()\>  
To: [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} The name Bharata in Mahabharata  
Date: Thu, 18 Feb 2016 23:46:02 +0530  
  

Dr Gargeshwari,



Bhaarata Varsha was not the dynasty. It is described as a land. Please go through the shared portion of Bheeshmaparva.





इदं तु भारतं वर्षं यत्र वर्तामहे वयम्।



पूर्वं प्रवर्तते पुण्यं तत्सर्वं श्रुतवानसि॥ ५०॥



and many other verses.



This portion is in fact part of Bhoomiparva.

On Thu, Feb 18, 2016 at 11:30 PM, Ajit Gargeshwari \<[ajit.gar...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> >  style="text-align:left;color:#330033;font-family:georgia,serif;display:inline"> >
> Bharta Varsha means The Dynasty of Bharatha who were the most > influential dynasty that ruled over Hastina Pura. Right from > Bharathas time the rulers of this dynasty were known for their valor. > With the special boons Bhismma had received they were practically > unbeatable. The rulers were rich enough without alienating the > Pandavas. Sanjaya always tries impress upon the king and Duryodhana > the path of righteousness which will lead to great wealth and > prosperity of Hastinapura. Hastinapura no doubt had imperial > ambitions but never claimed all the kingdoms should be subversive to > them. Mahabharata mentions several independent and powerful > kingdoms.Bharata had not still acquired the sense of a Single Geo > Political Unit as per the epic. As we now have India Nepal Bhutan etc. > there independent countries or Kingdoms then as per the epic. Many > kingdoms did not completely agree with views of Hastinapura but did > not want to confront Hastinapura directly. Many countries at present > don't completely agree with US hegemony but still they don't directly > confront US but negotiate so it was then. >
> 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > --  
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>. >
> 
> > 

  
  
  
--  

Nagaraj Paturi



Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA.



Former Senior Professor of Cultural Studies



FLAME School of Communication and FLAME School ofLiberal Education,



(Pune, Maharashtra,INDIA)









--  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

  
  

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**Get up to a $500 bonus**  
with a qualifying deposit to an Ally IRA from outside Ally Bank  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/56c8e7e71908367e77f91st04vuc)[https://ad.doubleclick.net/ddm/clk/299703265;126637921;p](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/56c8e7e71908367e77f91st04vuc)

