+++
title = "024 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2016-02-25, 03:51:08 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/4ZHPiE3Tu_I)]]



Feb 24, 2016



Dear Dr. N. Paturi,

Thanks for explaining your position towards the name Bharata. I agree with you.



However I am not concerned about twisting of historical facts by colonial rulers and their scholars. I have gone ahead of them many years ago. The ancient histories of Afghanistan, Persia and Babelonia are well documented in hundreds of references because of interest of Europe in Bible. The land of Bible was the middle-east. In addition there was Persian Empire in the known history from Sindhu river to Egypt and wars between Persia and Greece.



It is not difficult to recognize the Mahabharata nations from Bheeshma Parva outside. Another clue-please look at the ancient history of Kashmira from the time of Lalitaditya. His military concquest was in the direction of Northwest. There you find the country Tukharas. In the history of Persian empire you find Shakas, Kambojas, Vahlikas (Bactria) many nations mentioned in Mahabharata.



The book of Savitri Saxena offers many clues. In addition I had direct contact with scholars from the middle east because I live in USA.



One Indian scholar who traveled in the middle east countries, visited their museums was presented during my presentation on Mahabharata in Hyderabad. At the end he told the audience that he saw all the things Dr, Joshi just discussed in his presentation. Where there is will, their is way. Thanks. N.R.Joshi



