+++
title = "004 VKG"

+++
[[VKG	2011-05-21, 07:00:29 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/fE7RuZTtuJM)]]



Pranaam.  
Poorta Chandrika is the text published last century by a scholar from  
Kurnool Region. It has the necessary citations for Temple Renovation  
procedures (Ritualistic.)

As to the basis of Smaarta Aagama, it is collection of various Deity  
neutral Citations from various Puraanas. (But the Prayoga  
Kaaras,compilers have a tendency to add the tinge of deity, they  
worship such as Vishnu/ Devi etc.). However, they can be normally  
applied to all the occasions generally, with some contextual  
alterations.

Regards  
Vamshi Krishna Ghanapathi

On May 20, 7:23pm, Veeranarayana Pandurangi \<[veera...@gmail.com]()\>  
wrote:

  
\> in kerala and partly Tulu country people perform all temple rituals  
\> according to smaarta tradition. but they do not follow  
\> paancharaatra/vaikhanasa or shaiva aagamas for that. I do not remember the  
\> exat text they follow but it is titled tantra... something authored by  
\> kerala pandit. you may consult Iishaanagurudevapoojapaddhati etc published  
\> by Sansthan.  
\>  

\> On Fri, May 20, 2011 at 6:56 AM, S P Narang \<[spnar...@yahoo.com]()\> wrote:  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\> \> An institution at Bombay have made a software for the repairing the  
\> \> temples. It was demonstrated at Asiatic Society calcutta in the seminar on  
\> \> manuscriptology last year. For exact address, you may contact the society.  
\> \> Regards, spnarang  
\>  

\> \> ------------------------------  
\> \> \*From:\* sadasivamurty rani \<[ranisadasivamu...@yahoo.com]()\>  
\> \> \*To:\* [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
\> \> \*Sent:\* Thu, May 19, 2011 7:45:51 AM  
\> \> \*Subject:\* {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Are there any Smartha Agama Texts for

  
\> \> Jirna Aalayoddhara?  
\>  
\> \> Respected Scholars!  
\> \> Pranams!  
\> \> In a village in the Chittoor District of Andhra Pradesh there is a  
\> \> Srikrishna's temple constructed 30years back. Till date Nitya pujas and all  
\> \> related utsavas have been performed in that temple with great devotion. But  
\> \> the condition of the temple is reaching dilapidation. So the people of that  
\> \> village want to renovate the temple in a grand style. Further they want to  
\> \> install some more idols along with the existing one.  
\> \> With the help of Vasadhikara and some other Vaishnava Agama texts I tried  
\> \> to give them some information about the temple renovation process.  
\> \> But they want it renovated following Smartha Agama Texts. So can any of the  
\> \> scholars suggest me some athentic Smartha Agama Texts for the process of  
\> \> Jirna Aalaya uddhhara.  
\> \> With warm regards,  

\> \> \*Dr. Rani Sadasiva Murty\*



