+++
title = "000 Jsra Prasad"

+++
[[Jsra Prasad	2012-05-21, 22:24:08 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/Ov6c_-AY3M8)]]



Respected All,  
  
Namaste. You may follow the forwarded mail which is self explanatory.  
FYI please.  
  
With regards,  
Prasad  
  
  
---------- Forwarded message ----------  
From: Aravinda Rao \<[karav...@gmail.com]()\>  
Date: Sun, 20 May 2012 07:26:45 +0530  
Subject: website  
To:  
  
Dear friends,  
  
  
This is a letter about a website [www.advaita-academy.org](http://www.advaita-academy.org).  
  
  
Many of us, who are very busy in life and busy with life, have, at some  
point of time, the good fortune of realizing the need to introspect. I was  
busy in police service, having joined in the Indian Police Service in 1977  
and having worked in several sensitive places in the state of Andhra  
Pradesh, till I retired in June last year. However, there was also an  
undercurrent of self-enquiry in me which led to study of our religious and  
philosophical texts, improving my knowledge of Sanskrit by doing an M.A  
followed by a Ph.D in Vedanta. All this was a slow process of twenty years,  
while I was actively engaged in police work. This is where I realized that  
self-enquiry is not something which contradicts our work, but rather  
supports it by clarifying our perspective on work and other issues in life.  
  
  
After retirement, I am happy that I am associated with the website  
[www.advaita-academy.org](http://www.advaita-academy.org). As the name indicates, it is on Vedanta. It is the  
same Vedanta which Arjuna heard from Lord Krishna in the battle field and  
came out more clear about his role and functions. What he did was  
introspection, an analysis of his own emotions, and ethical doubts he  
entertained.  
  
Most of us are in this same quest, but we do not know the correct links  
about where to find a good master, who is a good master to be followed and  
so on. There are websites but we may not be aware of them. Hence I thought  
of addressing all of you about this.  
  
  
I have been writing blogs and articles for the above website. It so  
happened that I have been asked to take over as the editor of the web  
journal. I should confess that I am taking it up with all humility.  
  
  
The readers, it is seen, are from different continents, reflecting the  
Indian diaspora. They are the seekers, trying to know their cultural and  
intellectual heritage. The fact that there are as many readers in America  
as in India shows that a good percentage of the tiny group of Indians is  
keen about their tradition. There are, of course, lovers of Indian thought  
who are keen students of an alien tradition.  
  
  
This website has, by and large, been traditional in the sense that it has  
stuck to the basic texts of Advaita Vedanta, and to exposition of the  
texts by scholars or those trained in that fashion. Our approach will  
continue to be the same. The content will be traditional advaita in form,  
to avoid the likelihood of getting bogged down or distracted by modern  
theories. The idea is to preserve and strengthen our understanding before  
we embark on comparisions.  
  
  
I have an agenda for Sanskrit, the language in which all the advaita texts  
have been composed, as every vedantic term is loaded with special  
connotation.  
  
Sanskrit might be a bit of a handicap for some readers, we have to admit.  
However, some scholars have used technology and made the problem rather  
simple. Today a student can learn Sanskrit more easily than a student a few  
years ago, because of several online tutorials which have arrived. I would  
advise the readers to look at the website [www.samskritabharati.in](http://www.samskritabharati.in) and  
follow the links. They have been doing a fantastic job in spreading  
knowledge of Sanskrit all over the world.  
  
  
Surely, the knowledge of Atman is not denied to one who does not know  
Sanskrit, but some knowledge of the language will help you in two ways.  
Firstly, we know the concepts better. This is required for the spiritual  
exercises of śravaṇam (knowing the text), mananam (logically mulling over  
the text), and nididhyāsanam (internalizing and living the text) which are  
necessary steps in self-realization.  
  
  
Secondly, some acquaintance with Sanskrit enables us to know whether we are  
following a real master or an unreliable one.  
  
  
I often tell my friends to test a teacher before listening to him. It is  
simple. We can presume that anyone trying to teach Vedanta ought to have  
read Gita thoroughly, and so we can give him a text of Gita with any  
Sanskrit commentary. If the teacher can tolerably explain some passages,  
then listen to him; be it an advaita exposition or dwaita or of any other  
school. If the master is totally relying on the secondary sources like the  
discourses of a Swami, then it is for us to follow the old rule – ‘buyer  
beware’. We should know who the Swami, and then lend our ears to the  
master. I am personally circumspect in this, as I know that the study of  
texts is fast declining even in the traditional centres of learning.  
  
  
Decline of Sanskrit learning is alarming. If the trend continues for a few  
more years, we may be left with the digitized texts and with very few  
teachers to interpret them. May be, we have to do something to strengthen  
śāstra scholarship, so that the teaching tradition which has been kept  
alive till today will continue to be so to guide our children.  
  
  
  
I may add one more word about Sanskrit. It was the link language in India  
for three to four millennia. One may recall that Shankara, who was born in  
Kerala went round the country up to Srinagar to spread his message and set  
up his pīṭham-s, or centers of learning. Buddhist writers who initially  
wrote in Pali, later switched over to Sanskrit when they wanted to address  
a larger audience across the sub-continent. All scholars in the country  
wrote in Sanskrit whenever they addressed the whole of bharata varsha, and  
wrote in their native language when they wanted to address their local  
readers.  
  
  
Sanskrit Transliteration.  
  
  
This website has been using ITRANS which is freely downloadable (for  
transliteration of Sanskrit words or verses). It employs a phonetic key  
board and does not expect any prior skill in Sanskrit typing. The  
complaint, however, is that it is jarring to the eye, as we have to shift  
between the lower case and the upper case of the key board. A word like  
Dhritarashtra (father of the Kauravas in Mahabharat), has to be typed as  
dhRRitarAShTra to be phonetically correct. The other way is dhṛtarāṣṭra  
which is what is found in all the books.  
  
  
Besides, we do not find any text of any Swamiji in ITRANS. All standard  
publishers like Ramakrishna Mission, Chinmaya, Arsha vidya gurukulam, use  
the unicode which has now become universally popular. Most of the visitors  
to our website are obviously readers of available books on Vedanta, where  
ITRANS is never found.  
  
  
The viewers of this website are welcome to contribute in either ITRANS or  
in the widely used IAST (International Alphabet for Sanskrit  
Transliteration). Conversion from ITRANS to IAST is very easy on the  
website <http://learnsanskrit.org/tools/sanscript> , which has been suggested  
by our web designers. One may type in ITRANS and ask for conversion into  
Sanskrit or into IAST.  
  
  
I will be grateful if you can take some time to circulate this information  
among your friends, and Indian community networks or local FM radios in  
your city.  
  
  
  
Warm regards,  
  
Aravinda Rao  
  
  
  
--  
Dr. Jsra Prasad,  
Asst. Professor, Dept. of Sanskrit Studies  
University of Hyderabad, Prof. C.R. Rao Road,  
Hyderabad - 500 046 Tel: 040-2313 3803  

