+++
title = "035 VKG"

+++
[[VKG	2010-10-06, 05:25:16 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/fqLVDoS6wK0)]]



Pranaam!

I am surprised by the Explanation/ Comment that Roman Script has Pure  
Consonants. Which alphabet is consonant?

Similar to Samskruta, an over is enjoined by prefix or suffix. At some  
letters such as "Z" & "Q" two consonants are seen.

In fact, the addition of Vowel is to falicitate easier pronunciation.  
मुख सुखोच्चारणार्थम्।  
Regards  
Vamshi Krishna Ghanapaathi  
VKG

On Oct 5, 3:33pm, Vineet Chaitanya \<[v...@iiit.ac.in]()\> wrote:  
\> Please keep following points in mind:  
\>  
\>   1. The script does not have any basic symbol for hal. All consonants  
\> have an added अ.  
\>   2. This is unlike Roman script which has pure consonants. However, for  
\> the convenience of pronunciation some arbitrary vowels are added which are  
\> not really part of the consonants symbol.  
\>    ि = ् +इ  
\>  So वि = व +ि = व + ् +इ. There is no need to go beyond this step because  
\> every thing has been expressed in terms of the basic symbols of the script.  
\>  
\>  Yes one can add any number of (अ + ्) to any equality. Just as in  
\> mathematics one can add to any number, any number of \[1 + (-1)\] pairs  
\> without changing the value of the number.  
\>  
\> Vineet Chaitanya  

\> 2010/10/5 Madhav Gopal \<[mgop...@gmail.com]()\>\> Please tell me the process of decomposing वि.

  
\>  
\> \> As per your assumption you will be doing it:  
\>  
\> \> व + ् + इ  
\> \> and it will be equivalent to  
\>  
\> \> व् + अ + ् + इ  
\>  
\> \> you can again write it as per your assumption  
\>  
\> \> व + ् +अ + ् + इ and you can continue it as long as you wish.  
\>  
\> \> Thus we will never reach the end.  
\>  
\> \> On 5 October 2010 12:35, Vineet Chaitanya \<[v...@iiit.ac.in]()\> wrote:  
\>  

\> \>\> On Tue, Oct 5, 2010 at 12:29 PM, Madhav Gopal \<[mgop...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  
\>  
\> \>\>\> I haven't written "व+्". Please check my line again. We should not  
\> \>\>\> presuppose अ in such cases. व is made up of व् + अ and वि is made up of व् +  
\> \>\>\> इ. In the second example why do you presuppose the existence of अ. There  
\> \>\>\> exists इ only, no possibility for assuming any अ.  
\>  
\> \>\>   Please note there is no basic symbol in the script for व्. So when  
\> \>\> you write व् it is equivalent to writing व+्.  
\>  
\> \>\>\> On 5 October 2010 12:17, Vineet Chaitanya \<[v...@iiit.ac.in]()\> wrote:  
\>  

\> \>\>\>\> On Tue, Oct 5, 2010 at 12:06 PM, Madhav Gopal \<[mgop...@gmail.com]()\>wrote:  
\>  
\> \>\>\>\>\> Sir,  
\> \>\>\>\>\> That I have tried to show. It can substract any vowel not only अ. If we  
\> \>\>\>\>\> have a word like वृद्धि, its components would be analysed as follows:  
\>  
\> \>\>\>\>\> वृद्धि = व् + ऋ + द् + ध् + इ.  
\> \>\>\>\>\> Here undoubtedly, the halant sign has been used to show the absence of  
\> \>\>\>\>\> vowels ऋ, 0, and इ respectively. Thus, we can't say this sign substracts  
\> \>\>\>\>\> only अ vowel.  
\>  
\> \>\>\>\>  Please note you have not written "वृ+्" you have written "व+्" (व =  
\> \>\>\>\> consonant part + अ). So simply अ is getting subtracted.  
\>  
\> \>\>\>\> Vineet Chaitanya  
\>  
\> \>\>\>\>\> Madhav  
\>  
\> \>\>\>\>\>  On 5 October 2010 11:51, Vineet Chaitanya \<[v...@iiit.ac.in]()\> wrote:  
\>  

\> \>\>\>\>\>\> On Tue, Oct 5, 2010 at 11:37 AM, Madhav Gopal \<[mgop...@gmail.com]()\>wrote:  
\>  
\> \>\>\>\>\>\>\> On 5 October 2010 11:23, Vineet Chaitanya \<[v...@iiit.ac.in]()\> wrote:  
\>  
\> \>\>\>\>\>\>\>\> Dear Shri H.N. Bhat,  
\>  
\> \>\>\>\>\>\>\>\> Please do not try to read too much in a name! Would anybody use  
\> \>\>\>\>\>\>\>\> "halant sign" in Devanagari, to get hal part of कि?  
\>  
\> \>\>\>\>\>\>\>\> I think yes, if we want to get the hal part of कि, we have to split  
\> \>\>\>\>\>\>\> it in the consonant and the vowel, and this would like like:  
\> \>\>\>\>\>\>\> कि = क् + इ  
\>  
\> \>\>\>\>\>\>\> Here "halant" sign is substracting इ vowel not an अ.  
\>  
\> \>\>\>\>\>\>  You missed the point! The question is does the "halant sign"  
\> \>\>\>\>\>\> subtract any vowel or only the vowel "अ"?  
\>  
\> \>\>\>\>\>\> Vineet Chaitanya  
\>  
\> \>\>\>\>\>\>\> Sorry to intrude.  
\>  
\> \>\>\>\>\>\>\>\> My purpose was simply to point out the essential nature of the  
\> \>\>\>\>\>\>\>\> Brahmi based scripts.  
\>  
\> \>\>\>\>\>\>\>\> As I mentioned, for various reasons, languages do overload symbols.  
\> \>\>\>\>\>\>\>\> If its function has been generalised in Malayalam, for the  
\> \>\>\>\>\>\>\>\> convenience of using it on a typewriter, to subtract any vowel let  
\> \>\>\>\>\>\>\>\> it be so. Now that typewriters are outdated, it may be better, in my  
\> \>\>\>\>\>\>\>\> opinion, to revert back to separate symbols, to avoid unnecessary  
\> \>\>\>\>\>\>\>\> confusions.  
\>  
\> \>\>\>\>\>\>\>\> Vineet Chaitanya  
\>  



