+++
title = "004 R. N. iyengar"

+++
[[R. N. iyengar	2019-05-16, 20:42:44 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/3kW0FMUekdI)]]



My personal take:

"The liberal creative India seems to be shelved in the archives."This is largely true. The archives can not be limited to published texts & commentaries and the so called Shishtaachaara, although traditional insider perception is indispensable to the subject matter. Archaeological sites are themselves "archives" of a special kind. The million and odd manuscripts lying idle in the hard to communicate Indian libraries is another - Archive. *Debating through available documents* is what can happen in real time and hence the inititatives taken by the IDC are welcome. Analysis, debate, dissent and consensus are the way to go; wonderful !

A few specific points:

Indian cultural history as felt **qualitatively** by insiders is a continuum from times immemorial, with of course turns and twists (can be debated). Mapping this phenomenon is what as I understand IDC is doing. If so, this should be reflected in the periodization shown even if this were to be tentative. 5000 BC is a fair left side boundary ( as per St. Venant's principle in Mechanics, this is as good as minus infinity; -∞).

The title Indus Period itself is suspect, as it is based on IVC connotation. Current available information is more as Indus-Saraswati; or any other name which represents the archaeo-geographical facts correctly and as fully as possible. The moniker "Indus" is not just limited but is misleading (no offence meant), retaining remnants of the Aryan Invasion theory. The 2000BC boundary is a choice, but the Vedic period starting at this 'edge' is not correct. Logically an overlap has to be shown between the two periods 1 and 2. Available information supports this overlap in time. Whether there was a spatial overlap and if so, how is that reflected in the Vedic/Puranic texts and cultural evolution of the later periods should be the thrust of research on Ancient Indian Cultural History.

  

The two word-phrase of the 6 periods sounds rather arbitrary and subjective to me. For example for period 2, "Language and Organization" appears to indicate the outward form of Vedic literature with no importance to the contents. Since no details on how these were derived are given, no further comments are possible.

  

Thanks

RN Iyengar

  

  

On Thu, May 16, 2019 at 7:48 AM rniyengar \<[narayana...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  



