+++
title = "006 vaidikagramanirman"

+++
[[vaidikagramanirman	2009-04-24, 12:50:56 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/GLmlcpN4Nco)]]



namaste sir,  
  
I have had the honour of meeting The Grand Old Man and Great Son of  
India - Sri P.N.Oak personally and the honour of receiving an  
autographed book "world vedic heritage" and a few others from him  
about a year he passed on... he was in his 90s and undescribably  
agile.  
  
The essence of what he wrote and lived is right out of the veda "dont  
come to dead ends" on the matter of the "vid". Pre "sanskrit" and  
linguistic rules was the vid... "purvebhi RuShiH" "nUtanau" in RV  
ought to give clues.  
  
PN's writing on South America and his pointing out "Phonetic  
similitude" is the impetus for start of my study in linguistics of the  
Maya and Chacchiquel and other native languages of Australia. The key  
point is that these continents as per non-Oakish history had no  
contact with India or the Old World. Then how come the similarities? I  
am using e-versions of dhAtupAtha, Tolkappiyam - Lexicon Bharathi of  
Dr.S.Kalyanraman and Monier Williams Sanskrit-English dictionary Vedic  
Concordance Zendes Dictionary shabda kalpadruma in spreadsheet format  
and enabling statistical analysis.  

  
"Western scholars use ignorance of linguistics of Indians as their  
strong tool for attacking Indian scholars."  
  
  

I am no scholar. Anybody can be attacked if they put themselves in  
situations to be attacked. Indian scholars definitely ought to get out  
of the way first from attacks. Then also I see no point in analyzing  
the "shoes" that are kicking your teeth in.  
  
What is this "linguistic science" that is being talked about? a child  
in India since aksharAbhyAsam has linguistic foundations very firm in  
place. "barakhadi" I doubt there is a language that cannot be  
phonetically analyzed "barakhadi style"...  
  
IPA is now phonetizing English with their weird symbols and  
diacritics. This I call "sanskritizing" European languages.  
  
Western scholars will be more uneasy when Indian scholars start  
studying the pre Columbian American history - particularly words such  
as Maya - Guetemala - Armita - all have relationships with pANiNian  
dhAtupAtha.  
  
My advice to young "scholars" in any study is go ahead with gut  
feeling, create their own tools - the axioms and methods taught ought  
never be a prison. Most definitely it reeks of a new Non Indian  
"scholarly caste"  
  
Great regards  
  
  
On Apr 21, 12:05am, "[girav...@juno.com]()" \<[girav...@juno.com]()\> wrote:  
\> April 20, 2009\<?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" />  

î—“

\> Stuck in a dead end job?? Click to start living your dreams by earning an online degree.<http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL2131/fc/BLSrjnsIoPJLQEL0wexsJ9hWm.>..

