+++
title = "000 rniyengar"

+++
[[rniyengar	2012-11-04, 10:27:04 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/1vxZZgdHz9o)]]



Dear scholars,  
  
What has been said about BORI, other ORI's and Sanskrit Univs is by  
and large true, with minor exceptions. This has to be seen in  
perspective without condemning what ever "scholarly work" that is  
going on. Breast beating will be an extreme reaction eventhough at  
times one feels like doing that in the current state of affairs in the  
country.  
  
Dr.Yadu's concern about indological work in western univs needs  
attention; not by ignoring it, nor by condemning it.  
  
Having said the above, I like to suggest a positive type of reaction  
to westernized versions and recensions of Vedic and other ancient  
canonical texts. As I have surveyed with my limited knowledge, western  
scholars in 200 years have not been able to produce any original work  
in Sanskrit. They are at best interpreters/translators/critics/  
compilers/conservators and at worst distorters with vested interests.  
So the most effective way to counteract distortions and  
misinterpretations dumped by westernized scholarship is to produce  
ORIGINAL texts in shastraic Sanskrit. I humbly pray and hope our  
Ph.Ds, Pandits & Mahaamahop's put their intelligence to best use  
following the tradition of "[navanavonves.as](http://navanavonves.as)'aalinii prajn\~aa  
buddhih". This again needs to be focussed not on soft subjects like  
'dramas and poems' and classical literature but on Vedic texts, logic  
and perhaps even mathematics. Personally I believe a good starting  
point would be to bring out a Bhaas.ya on RV which is along the  
traditional path but going beyond Yaska, Shuanaka, Bhatta Bhaskara,  
SaayaNa, Dayananda, the modern translators, linguists & \*PIE-wallas.  
So much is talked about sankalpa, icchaas'akti, kriyas'akti,...in our  
tradition. Hopefully the springs have not dried up.  
  
My two paise worth of wishful thinking!  
  
dhanyo'smi  
  
RN Iyengar  
  
\>Dr.Yadu wrote  
\>Many of you may be aware of efforts at University of Austin to create a Critical Edition of \>R^igveda. This work have been in progress for few years whether anyone of the scholar from \>India likes it or not. When completed, this will automatically become the "Reference Text" for \>future generations. To me this is a serious issue !  
  
  

