+++
title = "001 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2012-11-04, 16:46:44 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/1vxZZgdHz9o)]]



  

Namaste Prof RNI,

  

My concerns popped up in my mind when I had learned about the Award (see the Link Below).

  

Some of members on the Award Committee admitted on private communication that they never read the book, but it is published by Penguin therefore it must be good. To say the ;least that floored my senses ! This is exactly what is likely to happen when it comes to Critical Editions on R^igveda. I am not sure if the scholar's from this list were aware &/or concerned about this and other awards.  

  

Naasadiiya suukta is not just recitation and look at the poetic aspect but it;s significance from the application point of view.  

  

Whatever action one takes always lies the first manifestation of "seed of hypothesis' in scientist' mind. I feel, if scholars from tradition and academics come together may be able to associate and then integrate various suuktaa's as used in yaja\~naa from not just only the application but their usefulness to the society at large.  

  

कामस्तदग्रॆ समवर्तताधि मनसॊ रॆत: प्रथमं यदासीत् ।

  

This is the first step for anything to happen, it is up to the pratam puruSha kartaa needs to decide whether to just glorify the Veda or act on the profound concepts for larger purpose of society. Essence of which was elegantly expressed in shrii suukta. I had explored this avenue in my Book, "Significnce of Shrii Suukta - Laxmi's Invocation for National prosperity".  
  
प्रादुर्भूतोऽस्मि राष्ट्रेऽस्मिन् कीर्तिमृद्धिं ददातु मे  
  
Best Rgds

  

Dr Yadu

  

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*  

  

Books, non-fiction (The Hindus – An Alternative History) to Wendy Doniger, Penguin.

  

<http://www.indianexpress.com/news/ramnath-goenka-awards-express-group-honours-the-best-in-indian-journalism/900305/0>  

  

>  style="font-family:times new roman,new york,times,serif;font-size:12pt"> >
>  style="font-family:times new roman,new york,times,serif;font-size:12pt"> >
> 
> > ------------------------------------------------------------------------ >
> **From:** rniyengar \<[narayana...@gmail.com]()\>  
> **To:** भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत् \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
> **Sent:** Saturday, November 3, 2012 9:57 PM  
> **Subject:** {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} RV-critical edition  
> > 
> > 
> > 

>  style="font-family:times new roman,new york,times,serif;font-size:12pt"> >
>  style="font-family:times new roman,new york,times,serif;font-size:12pt"> >
>   
> Dear scholars,  
>   
> What has been said about BORI, other ORI's and Sanskrit Univs is by  
> and large true, with minor exceptions. This has to be seen in  
> perspective without condemning what ever "scholarly work" that is  
> going on. Breast beating will be an extreme reaction eventhough at  
> times one feels like doing that in the current state of affairs in > the  
> country.  
>   
> Dr.Yadu's concern about indological work in western univs needs  
> attention; not by ignoring it, nor by condemning it.  
>   
> > 
> > 



