+++
title = "010 Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)	2016-02-13, 11:30:43 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/ZRFs6tbBUPM)]]



Namaste Kalicharan Tuvi ji

Good observations on Sanskrit but made on inaccurate understanding of tradition and current world reality ! Here are specific comments on your post, for which I want to see your response, highlighting the ' Application of Knowledge -here and now ( = Viniyoga - iha).

**Point 1: On** **observation**** \<** **Government related** **- Government solely exists for** **…**** In case of Sanskrit.. any thing worth to redistribute** **\>** :

**BVK Sastry- observation**: Why Sanskrit /Samskruti should be a concern of government ? unless people of nation ask for it ?

 Government is for 'Governance - administration' . It is an organizational convention to serve people of nation. How Government functions depends upon many things. What government will touch depends upon what the people in nation needs ! Governments function on policy matters, products and services differently within the country and beyond, by looking at the 'national interest' ( which in many cases may just be a shortsighted action based on political parties at power). The sweeping general observation does not address the issue. When Government spends money on Sanskrit, it is based on the ' report' given to it by the peoples representatives ! and 'precedence' !

**Point** **2****: On observation \<** **A whole class of professionals (Brahmins) - arguably - was created in a remote past to preserve some core competencies**** \>**

**BVK Sastry- observation**: What is the basis for this statement \< Brahmins as a whole class was created in a remote past ..> by Whom ? What is the history timeline you follow in making this assertion ?

**Point** **3****: On observation \<** **What next ?** **…****uncover the treasure** **…****. Hundred years ..present state of art ..
investing future resources in this** **direction…**** \>**

**BVK Sastry- observation**: Who has to take the decisions and guide investments in Sanskrit studies ? Why?

Samskruth rooted Samskruti is the foundation of a Spiritual Society / A society which is 'Dharma -anchored' and 'Dharma - compliant'. A society which desired to be Yogis according to Gita directive 6-44:Tasmat Yogi Bhava.

When Samskruth tradition is looked at from commercial interest as ' return on investment' measuring the outcome by vote-catching power and grant fund- attraction, your question has to be made differently : In What ways can investing in Sanskrit help to promote economic agenda and power of a nation? Don’t drift this question to the ideal of democracy and respond : Sanskrit is for culturing the society. That is not the job of government. If Sanskrit study can help promote health, job - creation then government would look at it. If Sanskrit study would help vote-attraction, parties will fund it. If Sanskrit study would help religion-brand building then religious communities and gurus would invest resources in it and capture it. If ' killing-Sanskrit' would benefit some body, then they would invest in their time and resources in an 'engagement on battle for Sanskrit'.

  

**Point** **4****: On observation \<** **The need is doing research, not teaching. The need is for researchers - problem solvers - not teachers. Distribute solutions, not problems.****\>**

**BVK Sastry- observation**: How can research be done by keeping out the 'Teachers' ? And what the defined problem statement for the research -problem?

  

**Point** **5****: On observation \<** **So, of course this rote based learning of Sanskrit is the wrong way, and moving in this direction only furthers harm (already evident). Sanskrit itself is not understood; its practitioners unknowingly propagate its own demise. If and when Sanskrit is understood, it can only be as a natural language (evolved or enlightened, besides the point) fit to be spoken by the specialists and the laymen alike.****\>**

**BVK Sastry- observation**: Can you please articulate the language model for understanding 'Sanskrit' ? How is to be understood for 'Research purposes' ? As a language of historical society ? A religious community ? As Gods language ? And what is this language study to facilitate ? local conversation on street ? or conversation with Gods ? What is open ended collaboration in which Wanderers and Sadhus are to participate ? Expect an initiation for researchers in Tantra ?

And you talk of ' collective failure' - which in your opinion has resulted in a state where \< not a single line of Vedas and allied texts has been understood or translated correctly till date. \> What is your competence to pass such a sweeping judgement on the entire Veda-Vedanta tradition ?

Regards

BVK Sastry

-----Original Message-----  
From: [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() \[[mailto:bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\] On Behalf Of Kalicharan Tuvij  
Sent: Friday, 12 February, 2016 12:21 PM  
To: भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्  
Subject: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Vision Document for Sanskrit development - MHRD Committee

नमस्ते ।

Governments exist solely for the purpose of redistribution (in a minimal manner) of commodities. The commodity can be anything: wealth, skill, knowledge, justice, roads, medicine, law, etc.In case of Sanskrit, as things stand today, is there something of worth to redistribute?





