+++
title = "001 Dr. T. Ganesan"

+++
[[Dr. T. Ganesan	2014-08-18, 13:18:01 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/crWcw925kZ4)]]



  
Dear Ravishankar,  
As you say KumAra worship was wide spread through the country in the  
early periods. As many of us know, the Gupta king KumAragupta,  
Skandagupta were all staunch devotees of KumAra. In their oficial coins  
we find the images of Skanda-kumAra seated on peacock which is also well  
known. We have the very famous mahAkAvya KumArasambhava by mahAkavi  
kAlidAsa at such an early period.  
It is also a fact that KuAra was worshipped as a child (Skanda), as an  
young man (kumAra) as an icon for valour, and as one of his names  
clearly states, He is \[Deva\] senApati, and we have the name senAnI in  
the Amarakosa as one of his many names.  
It is very interesting to note that the ancient name for Abbotabad was  
Kumarastan in the 1st century inscription. It is a very important  
information and it definitely pushes the KumAra worship still earlier.  
  
Then coming to the prevalence of Saiva Agama in many parts of north and  
central India, as I had written earlier in the same thread and  
elesewhere, we have many number of inscriptions spread in the  
Ganga-NarmadA Doab about the Saiva MaTha-s such as GolakI, Amardaka,  
etc. even as early as the 5th century.  
There are also many inscriptions in Kalinga, Odisha, and the present  
Chattisgarh state related to many of the Pashupata maTha-s, AcArya-s and  
theie royal dynasties who patronised them and themselves became  
Pashupata-s, declare themselves Parama MAheshvara-s which fully  
testify to the wide spread popularity of the Saiva and Pashupata maTha-s  
and monastic lineages. Hundreds of Siva temples in these regions and  
especially in Odisha and kalinga contructed by these royal personages  
have the images of Lakulisa in them.  
An excellent and pioneering research has been done by one Mr. Lakshman  
Kumar Panda entitled "Saivism in Orissa" fully based on the available  
inscriptions pertaining to 4th-7th century.  
Similarly there are other studies on the Saiva maTha-s in different regions.  
  
  
Ganesan  



