+++
title = "006 Dr. T. Ganesan"

+++
[[Dr. T. Ganesan	2014-08-22, 16:52:54 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/crWcw925kZ4)]]



Yes. There were many Saiva maTha-s with recorded monastic lineages in the central, north, west and east India. They were very active throughout the 8th to 14th centuries. Many AcArya-s were the Rajaguru-s of such royal dynasties as the Haihaya-s, Kalachuri-s, the KAkatIya-s in the country of Dahala, Andhra and in other parts.  
Amardaka and Mattamayura were the two important Saiva monastic lineages that were very wide spread and active in almost all parts of the country and especially in the central and western parts.  
There are quite a good number of studies based entirely on inscriptions on the Saiva maTha-s and monastic lineages. These well researched papers and monographs such as

R. D. Banerji, *The Haihayas **of Tripuri and their Monuments, *Memoirs of the Archaeologica l Survey of India, No. 23
(Calcutta, 1931 ), and V. V. Mirashi, ''The Saiva Acary:ts of the
Mattamayura Clan", *Indian Hi **st orical Quarterly *26 (1950),
1-16. Mirashi's introduc tio n to *Corpus Insciprionum Indicarum,
*Vol. 4, containing the inscrip­ tions of the Kalacuris of
Tripuri,

are worth reading to understand the wide spread popularity of Saivism and saiva maTha-s.  
Another very important book is " History of Saiva Cults in Northern India from Inscriptions 700-12-- A.D" which is definitely a pioneering work in this regard. This study throws so much light on the spread of Pashupata, KAlAmukha sects in many parts of North India.  
In most of these inscriptions we have a clear list of Acharya-lineages with their names (dIkshAnAma), etc. and in some of them their place of origin. This saves us from much of confusion regarding those acharya-s and their successors which is the case we find in many of the maThAmnAya-s, especially in the Sankara maTha-s.  
  
In all these multitudes of inscriptions and studies, we do not come across any reference/mention to other systems such as the Vedanta or Vaishnava.  
Practically we have no inscription during this period on any of the Sankara maTha-s or any other Vedanta system.  
Even in Kanchipuram in the inscriptions of Rajasimha Pallava at the very famous Kailasanatha temple constructed by him, we do not at all have any reference to Sankara maTha or to Sankara. For, Rajasimha's period very much coincides with the generally accepted period of Sankara, namely, the first half of the 8th century. Had there been any such maTha established by Sankara, how could it have missed any reference in any of the king's numerous inscriptions ??  
  
Ganesan





