+++
title = "000 v...@csa.iisc.ernet.in"

+++
[[v...@csa.iisc.ernet.in	2009-03-15, 09:49:38 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/A5L9wYJ44vM)]]



---------------------------- Original Message ----------------------------  
Subject: Comments on Narlikar's paper  
From: [v...@csa.iisc.ernet.in]()  
Date: Sun, March 15, 2009 9:43 am  
To: "Vishu ," \<[vishwesh...@gmail.com]()\>  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dear Sri Vishwesha  
I agree with what you write.

All Indian darshanas and vedangas present an integrated or holistic views  
on life. Astrological predictions are not to be made on casual basis as by  
learning a course such as "Learn astrology in 30 days". Most of the people  
who call themselves astrologers are fraudulent and just make a living  
using it. I myself have known some great astrologers and if you subject  
them to the test Narlikar et al administer, they may not answer yes or no.  
Astrology does not give yes and no answers to objective type questions.

My criticism about the paper is not about the statistical test. It is  
about testing the underlying knowledge and reasoning associated with  
prediciton. A better test should have been gving a horoscope and asking  
the astrologers what do they make out of it. For example can they say  
whether they can say anything about correctness of birth time if they know  
the person. You can give some ground truth (some samples with known  
history) so that they may calibrate). The objective if you are serious is  
to collect the data and build the knowledge base and test it for  
correlations. Testing causal relations between multiple variables is a  
complex problem. Invariably there is uncertainty in everything and every  
hypothesis could be given only a probability of predicition. Some type of  
Bayesian statistics based reasoning should have been used. My point is  
that their goal to debunk astrology, without considering its recognized  
hypotheses and accepted limitations.

I hope that this at least partially answers your questions  
Thank you for your interest.

VVS Sarma

  

