+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-11-13, 02:07:55 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/Ls0e1sVwjcA)]]



Position: South Asian Studies Librarian, University of Pennsylvania  
\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*  
  

University of Pennsylvania, University of Pennsylvania Libraries  
  
South Asia Studies Librarian  
  
  
Institution Type: College / University  
Location: Pennsylvania, United States  
Position: Librarian  
  
  
The University of Pennsylvania Libraries seek an innovative and energetic South Asia Studies Librarian to develop and manage the South Asia collection and to provide library services for the interdisciplinary field of South Asian Studies at Penn.  
  
The University of Pennsylvania has engaged in research and teaching on South Asia since the late 19th century and currently supports undergraduate and graduate level research on South Asia through the Dept. of South Asia as well as in a number of other departments and programs. Penn also has a federally funded Title VI South Asia Center.  
  
To support these research and teaching activities, the Library acquires materials of research and teaching value in a wide range of formats in both Indic and Western languages. With collections dating back to the early 19th century, Penn has one of the premier South Asia collections in the country. In addition to its particular strengths in the traditional areas of anthropology, archaeology, art history, classical Indology, history, linguistics, literature, religion, philosophy and political science, the collection now reflects the expanding academic study in such new areas of interest as Cinema, Popular Culture, Business and Health.  
  
The Penn Libraries include fifteen libraries and an off-site high density storage facility. System-wide scholarly resources number nearly 6 million books, 44,000 current serials (of which 16,000 are e-journals) and 700 databases. The library is a leader in the development of digital library services and collections and is aggressively experimenting with and adopting new technology in research and teaching, including courseware. As a founding partner of the Kuali OLE Project, Penn will be at the forefront of developing a next-generation community source technology environment to support academic library operations.  
  
The University of Pennsylvania is a private, Ivy League comprehensive research university in Philadelphia founded in 1740 by Benjamin Franklin and his circle. It comprises twelve schools, 3,800 faculty and an enrollment of 20,000 students, equally divided between undergraduate and graduate/professional school students.  
  
Position Summary:  
  
Reporting to the Director of Collection Development & Management, the South Asia Studies Librarian selects and acquires scholarly resources from and about the region of South Asia, in a wide range of subjects in both western and Indic languages. The incumbent supervises the technical processing of selected materials acquired from vendors in South Asia. The incumbent may also perform original cataloging of selected materials in conjunction with other library specialists. S/he also provides specialized reference services, instruction and consultations with scholars and students from the Penn community and beyond as well as maintains a seminar room with its own reference collection and teaching/lecture facilities.  
  
The South Asia Studies Librarian will have knowledge of changing patterns of scholarship and publishing in relevant fields of study, and will be committed to the international and interdisciplinary strengths of Penns academic programs. While continuing to focus on traditional formats, the South Asia Studies Librarian will actively promote new digital media and services and is expected to seek out external funding opportunities and develop collaborative partnerships worldwide. In addition, the Penn Libraries have a number of unique manuscript resources which the incumbent will be encouraged to develop and promote.  
  
  
  
Overall responsibilities:  
  
Develops and manages the South Asia collection from and about the geographic region which includes Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Indian, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan, Sikkim, and Sri Lanka with some coverage of Tibet. Materials are also acquired which cover the diasporic community of South Asians in the U.S., UK, and elsewhere in the world outside of South Asia proper. The primary languages covered include most notably Sanskrit (Vedic and Classical), Hindi, Urdu, Bengali, Tamil, and Telugu as well as English, French and German to support research in South Asia Studies.  
  
Manages, coordinates, and participates in the process of acquisition and bibliographic control of all types of resources in the languages of the region, using the Voyager library management system and OCLC bibliographic utility.  
  
Performs original and complex copy cataloging for all resources in the vernacular and provides appropriate classification and subject analysis according to national and local standards often in conjunction with other library specialists.  
  
Serves as a resource person, both within the South Asia Unit and throughout the Libraries, on matters pertaining to the bibliographic control of resources from the region as well as the maintenance of the integrity of the online South Asia catalog data.  
  
Provides specialized reference, instruction and academic liaison services primarily to faculty and graduate students with research interests in South Asia Studies.  
  
Works closely with the faculty and students, especially undergraduates, from several other departments and schools where the South Asia is included as a topic of study within more general coursework.  
  
Develops and maintains the South Asia Collection website,<http://www.library.upenn.edu/collections/sasia/>  
  
Participates in the larger field of South Asia librarianship on the national and international level with a particular emphasis on fostering meaningful collaboration.  
  
Promotes effective relationships with colleagues, especially those in other Area Studies Units and other humanities bibliographers, their respective campus constituencies, and donors.  
  
Supervises and trains two part time administrative assistants  
  
Contingent on training and experience may have additional assignments in teaching courses related to South Asia Studies or as the Libraries Coordinator for Area Studies by providing fiscal oversight and advocacy for all area studies librarians.  
  
  
Qualifications:  
  
An accredited Masters degree in library or information science or the equivalent in education and training. For Librarian C, a minimum of three years and for Librarian D, a minimum of 5 years of relevant professional experience in an academic research library. Advanced knowledge of area-based history, literature and culture with a graduate degree in South Asia Studies preferred. Experience in using bibliographic utilities for searching and cataloging in non-Roman scripts. Knowledge of the publishing industry in the South Asia and trends in scholarship. Fluent written and spoken command of one or more relevant languages, including Sanskrit and HIndi, as well as excellent oral and written communication skills in English. Ability to work independently and collegially with professional colleagues and scholars at all levels.  
  
Rank and Salary: Salary is competitive and commensurate with experience. Includes a generous benefits package, additional information available at<http://www.hr.upenn.edu/jobs/benefits.asp>.  
  
  
To Apply: Potential candidates are invited to submit a letter of application that addresses the needs and qualifications of the position, along with their resume and the names, addresses, and phone numbers of three references who can address the suitability of the candidate for the position described, as well as complete an on-line employment application at<https://jobs.hr.upenn.edu/applicants/Central?quickFind=192564>  
  
Alternatively, you may search by job reference # 101029540 at<http://www.hr.upenn.edu/jobs>  
  
Applications submitted by November 30, 2010 will receive priority consideration.  
  
The University of Pennsylvania values diversity and seeks talented students, faculty and staff from diverse backgrounds. The University of Pennsylvania is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. Women, minority candidates, veterans and individuals with disabilities are strongly encouraged to apply.  
  
  
Contact: University of Pennsylvania Libraries  
  
Library Human Resources  
3420 Walnut Street  
Philadelphia, PA  
19104  
  
Website:<http://www.library.upenn.edu/>  
  
Primary Category: South Asian History / Studies  
  
Secondary Categories: Area Studies  
  
Posting Date: 11/11/2010  
Closing Date 02/09/2011

