+++
title = "002 Roland Steiner"

+++
[[Roland Steiner	2019-07-30, 04:19:01 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/cXNKi6dmHTA)]]



  
\> This task must somehow become a regular service  
\> provided by some institution for the benefit of the big circle of scholars.  
  

In the meantime, "SARDS3" (= South Asia Research Documentation  
Services 3") -- the most extensive online bibliography of Indological  
papers worldwide (currently ca. 96,000 entries, including keyword  
search and annotations) --, would be a good start for bibliographical  
research:  
  
<http://www.sards.uni-halle.de/?do=query>  
  
About:  
  
"SARDS3 is an electronic database containing bibliographic references  
to South Asia research articles published in journals, collective  
volumes, conference proceedings, Festschriften, etc. SARDS3 is a joint  
undertaking of the Indological Chairs at the Universities of Bonn,  
Halle, Munich and the management of the University Library Halle. It  
aims at the retrospective filling of identifiable bibliographic gaps  
in the previous version SARDS2 (publications between 1797 and 2000).  
The focus of SARDS3 is on the humanities and social sciences. To date,  
over 93,000 citations are electronically searchable, covering the  
period from 1797 until 2000.  
  
SARDS3 strongly invites the cooperation of scholars. Those interested  
in a long-term cooperation are requested to contact Andreas Pohlus.  
You may add your own data to SARDS3. In order to do so you will have  
to register a free account. You can find any data you have entered  
into the database right away, however, other people will not see it  
immediately. Only once the data you have entered is approved by a  
moderator will it be publically visible."  
  
  

