+++
title = "005 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-04-12, 10:32:58 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/y1zkLMAblrA)]]



Namaste



Please help to get a clarity on the subject line:



1. The subject line speaks of ‘ TRANSLATION and COMMENTARY’ for Rig-Veda. The seeking is articulated as search for \< **an accurate and informed English translation of the Rig Veda for self-study by non-Sanskritists?** >



2. ***Translation means ‘ Bhashaantara’*** : Communication of Meaning of Content in ‘ Source document’ to ‘ a document in target language’, which is useful for leisure study and Scholarly study at leisure . 



 ***Commentary means ‘ Vyaakhyaana - Bhaashya – Teekaa /Tippani’*** : Explanation of Text- Content that goes beyond the ‘ literal translation’, where the writer present their ‘ informed
opinion’ about the ‘Veda’.

 And this needs to be studied under the tutelage of a ‘ Guru’.



3. What is available in indicated resources’ is ‘ a mix up of preferred model of understanding what is identified as document of
‘Veda’ with a historicity and socio-religious- lingua concept.

 These do not bring out the basics of what was understood and adapted in the bhaarateeya darshana shaastra/ yajna-karma vidhi’ as ‘Veda’. 



4. What traditional schools always suggest for ‘ Self-Study’ to get engaged with VEDA is to practice any one of the ‘Yoga’s called ‘ TAPAS, SWAADHYAAYA, ISHWARA-PRANIDHANA’. ( PYS -2-1); use the texts of Ramayana and Mahabharata as iconic illustrations of what Veda intends to present, to get a ‘ SELF- VISION and EXPERIENCE’. 



 The standard used is : Veda is ‘Self- Annotating and Self-Commented Text’. This is the method of ‘ Nirukta’ where ‘ Vedic Vocabulary is used to explain Vedic Suktas.



 What ‘Academics’ seem to seek and present is the ‘ Opinion and narrative of someone else’. 



5. In Indian schools, what is available as ‘Vedaartha’ – Meaning is oriented to align the explanation to ‘ Vedanta – Prasthana Traya approach’/ yajna vidhi/ Mantropaasanaa’ ;

 The explanation of intent is to highlight the Utility- Application (= Viniyoga ) of Mantra .



Has any modern work kept its focus on this ? Has anyone checked latest efforts by Prof. Witzel on Translation and Commentary of Vedas ?



Regards

BVK Sastry



--  



