+++
title = "027 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-04-14, 15:22:32 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/y1zkLMAblrA)]]



Namaste

1. This thread started in search of an answer, nay an Indian Traditional position ( academic or otherwise) responding to the post:
\< Could the learned members here recommend **an accurate and informed English translation of the Rig Veda for self-study by non-Sanskritists?** I am looking for an English translation with the original Sanskrit hymns for comparison, and preferably with extracts from any traditional commentary. \> . 



 My considered response was \< We have NONE to make a recommendation>. I have not seen any post raise any objection on this position.

 Do We want a ‘ Modern work addressing Veda – issues’ raised ? as above? If yes, how are we to proceed, knowing full well all the clinkers noted below? Where to start ?



2. The situation opens the doors to the flood of next set of questions. Without a clarity on the following points, the social and spiritual outreach of ‘Vedas’ as ‘ translation, commentary, practice for religion specificity’ will just rest on personal faith – belief platform ! This is deeply connected with the criticality of ‘ Samskruth Language Pedagogy’ – Teaching methods of Samskrutham as ‘Yoga of Vak’ , the Patanjali way of Learning Language-grammar of Panini coded as ‘Ashtaadhyayi’ . This is an option to restore and re-explore ‘Ashtaadhyaayi’ in place of PIE model Indology approach based on ‘Tower of Babel’ narrative.



 Here below are the questions:



 Question 1: Do we have, a position to address and assert an answer to the basic questions on VEDAS as below: 

 ‘What is Veda’ ( LAKSHANA) ? – DEFINITION Issue.

 ‘Why Veda’ ( PRAYOJANA - VINIYOGA) ? – USE issue

 ‘HOW Veda’ ( YOGA- PRAYOGA )? – PRACTICE – PURPOSE- METHODS and SYSTEMS, TRANSLATIONS, COMMENTARY ON TEXT.





 Question 2: ***With all the details poured in the posts, do we have a logically, scientifically convergent ‘Bharateeya Vidwat Parishat’ assessment on issues of ‘ (i) Veda (The Source Text) – (ii)
Vedaartha ( Meaning and Purpose of Veda) – (iii) Veda Taatparya ( The Goal, vision and mission of Veda) – (iv) Veda Viniyoga ( USE- Practical beneficial application of Veda ) – (v) Vedaanta – ( The end outcome , as Spiritual/ adhyatma understanding of the source document)
(vi) Veda Bhashaa – ( Language/ Idea Tools to understand , interpret, practice the text) ’ - over and above what has been provided from Panini- Patanjali-Yaska onwards, Through Shaunaka, ….. Ramanuja, Madhwa up to Sayana? ***

******

 This is a clear position assessment with the
reference line : ‘ Insider to Vyasa- BADARAYANA Sampradaya’ Or ‘ Outsider to Vyasa- BADARAYANA Sampradaya’ ?

******

 Question 3: How post colonial / Post Sayana Translators and Commentators have meddled or maintained the indigenous Veda study tradition – In India or outside ? Even when it is fully known that inappropriate translations and commentaries have lead to social upheavals with political consequences and spiritual dilemmas on ‘To do or Not to Do the Karma-Kanda prescribed by Vedas’ ?? 



 Question 4: Has Academia ( Western as well as Indian) taken a freehand – free for all – academic liberty for freewheeling of OPINIONS on the above questions to float around as ‘ VEDIC RESEARCH,
TRANSLATIONS- COMMENTARIES’ even when there is a consistent violation of the standards of LANGUAGE – IDEA – USAGE- CONTINUING PRACTICE , all of which got freezed at least by 6^(th) century BCE in the frame of ‘ Panini-Patanjali-Yaska’ ? The trio, who were well acquainted and clear about the ‘ texts that go in to the PRASTHANA TRAYA’ approach ? 





***2. Here below is a summary of points from the posts made on this thread and have not provided any positive recommendation for the starting question: ***

**2a) Ramanujachar P**: Presented Sri Ramanuja Sampradaya which alone carries the unique features binding Jaimini- Kaashakrutsna- Baadarayana. 



**2b) Prof. KSK** : Sayana consciously limited the scope of commentary to focus on certain aspects ; adhyatmic sense that is missed a great deal today ; we find this in the writings of Agrawala and Coomaraswamy.




**2c) Dr. Yadu Moharir**: Most translators have not followed the directives provided by Sage Shaunaka pertaining to “ USE” (The ‘Viniyoga’). This has been missed by Westerns as well as Home team scholars.

**2d) Achyut Karve** : With respect to the Vedas which of the two questions are more relevant. 1) What was recited? 2) How was it recited?

**2e) David Reigle** : 19^(th) century German scholars ( Max Mueller-1823 – 1900) and later writers Swami Dayananda Saraswati (1824–1883 ) , Sri Aurobindo (1872 –1950) rejected Sayana (circa 14th century) due to his limited focus on ‘ Ritual (Adhiyajna) and not providing the other perspectives of understanding Veda in Adhyatma and Adhi-daiva. These five perspectives of Veda interpretation were
continuously prevalent in India since Yaska (earlier to 6^(th) century BCE).



**2f) Dmitri Semenov** : **The agendas and positions of convenience of "Western scholars" shall be pointed out even more brutally --- Western indology was and probably is driven by the ideas of religious conversion and by quite mistaken sense of superiority of Abrahamic creed** --- but it would be a mistake to see in it some substantial obstacle to the challenge --- "colonial" and "post-colonial" scholars have quite **seductive examples for simplifications and "sandwiches of convenience" in indigenous sources** --- and it is those sources that should be taken up for a critical consideration.



**2g) Prof. Madhav Deshpande** : \< Thanks for adding this information on Vedic interpretation. **The Nirukta has a few other modes of Vedic interpretation, namely the Nairukta "etymological" mode and the Aitihāsika mode.** He ofter quotes stories from the Brāhmaṇas with the phrase "iti aitihāsikāḥ." The Nairuktas as is clear from the Nirukta do not always agree with each other. The other extreme of interpreting the Vedas mentioned by Yāska, and disputed, is the view of Kautsa who boldly proclaimed "anarthakā mantrāḥ". **So, from the point of view of Kautsa, there would be no translation of the Veda possible.
From the view point of the Nairuktas, the interpretation would be based on proposed etymologies, and from the view point of the Aitihāsikas, the Vedic passages should be interpreted in relation to the stories or accounts of events found in the Vedas, mostly in the Brāhmaṇas.** As for traditional commentaries on the Vedas, besides the more well known commentaries of Sāyaṇa, Bhaṭṭabhāskara, Mahīdhara etc, Vishvabandhu has published in eight volumes the R̥gveda commentaries of Skandasvāmī, Veṇkaṭamādhava and Mudgala, **and these commentators do not always agree with each other.** In addition to this, there is a commentary of Madhva on some portions of the R̥gveda, with multiple subcommentaries. **This goes to show that in India there were always multiple ways of interpreting the Vedas**. \>



**2h) Prof. Nagaraj Paturi** : Multiple interpretations of mantra bhaaga of the Veda are found already there in the braamhaNas and aaraNyakas. . What yaaska is doing by enlisting adhiyajna, aadhibhautika, aadhidaivika, aadhyaatmika or any other kind of arthas is classifying these already available interpretations in the braamhaNas and aaraNyakas. Aadhyaatmika interpretation of the mantra bhaaga is what is found in the sections of braamhaNas and aaraNyakas that are given the name 'Upanishads', though they do not provide a mantra-wise explanation covering all the mantras. . **Thus aadhyaatmika interpretation of mantras is neither new nor little**. Since the entire Vedanta tradition is built on the foundation of the sections of braamhaNas and aaraNyakas that are given the name 'Upanishads',entire Vedanta tradition is a huge edifice built on the aadyaatmika interpretation of the mantras only , thought is edifice does not provide a mantra-wise explanation covering all the mantras**. What distinguishes the interpretations by 'modern' bhaashyakaaras/commentators/translators such as Swami Dayananda Sarasvati, Sri Aurobindo, Sri Kapali Sastri etc., from the pre-modern ones is that the modern ones are informed /influenced by 'science(s)' and not that they created any new aadhyatmika interpretation that did not exist or existed little in the pre-modern times. **

****

****

Look forward for the pointers that help to answer the starting question.



Regards

BVK Sastyr























> 
> > 
> > **Error! Filename not specified.**
> > 
> > 



> 
> > 
> > 
> > 

--

Dr. P. Ramanujan

  
Parankushachar Institute of Vedic Studies (Regd.)

Bengaluru

080-25433239 (R)

9449088616



