+++
title = "001 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-12-15, 10:18:32 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/ImBjS9TFIVE)]]



# Has there been an update to this last year's report? The Dictionary project started in 1948 and we were told that it would take upto 2057. Of what use such a dictionary which takes so long -- more than a century -- to complete? How many students of 6.5 lakh villages in Bharatam will get access to it?

#  

# Has any thought been given to digitise the project and complete it by 2011 December?

#  

If not, why not?  
kalyan

# Dept of Sanskrit lexicography at Deccan College

Swati Shinde, TNN, Nov 2, 2009, 03.08am IST

PUNE: The Deccan college post-graduate and research institute will set up country's first-ever Department of[Sanskrit](http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/topic/search?q=Sanskrit)Lexicography, starting from academic year 2010-11. The department which will initially offer masters and doctorate courses in lexicography, will allow students to gain hands-on experience on the mammoth Sanskrit dictionary project, undertaken by the college way back in 1948.  
  
Lexicology is the science of the study of word whereas[lexicography](http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/topic/search?q=lexicography)is the writing of the word in some concrete form i.e. in the form of dictionary. It also includes the history, theory, methodology and typology of dictionary-making.  
  
Director of the college Vinayaka Bhatta said, "For several years we have been working on the Sanskrit dictionary project. So, we realise the potential of lexicography in Sanskrit. Hence, we decided to set up a separate department for the subject. Also, the fact that there is no lexicography department or courses available exclusively for Sanskrit led us to set up one."  
  
There are several universities in the country that offer lexicography courses in various other languages namely - Punjabi, English and even Tamil. But not Sanskrit. The Sanskrit lexicography course will get underway from next year even as the department will be set up on the premises of Deccan college.  
  
"Once the course gains publicity and the department expands, we intend to build a separate building and add more courses," Bhatta said.  
  
The Deccan College has undertaken the Sanskrit dictionary project which is described as one of world's biggest lexicography work having started in 1948 and expected to be completed in another 30 to 40 years from now.  
  
Unlike conventional dictionaries which deal with word meanings as static, one-item entries, this Sanskrit dictionary adopts a historical approach, a special feature in the field of lexicography. The project has already seen three generations of lexicographers at work and many more to go.  
  
The students applying for these courses will also gain hands-on experience on this mammoth project and further still they swill also get a chance to prepare their own dictionary as a project.  
  
"There are several opportunities in the field today and a number of universities and colleges in the country and outside are involved in various projects related to lexicography. Also, students who pass out of this course can take up an initiative and prepare their own dictionaries," Bhatta said.  
  
Presently, the Deccan College has three departments functioning, namely the department of archaeology, department of linguistics and the Sanskrit dictionary project.

  
<http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/articleshow/5186988.cms?prtpage=1>  



