+++
title = "033 VKG"

+++
[[VKG	2013-01-05, 05:57:39 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/61H1QsFqBX4)]]



Dear Scholars

  

Pranam. I was wondering what purpose are we serving by discussing this point and similar points.

  

On another hand, MIM (Political party) Legislator is getting arrested or about to be detained, for making similar nuances though with different intention.

  

Words are similar. Please refer to news paper reports.

  

Every faith/ tradition/ religion has its strong points and weak points; based on the view point/ perspective of the analyst.

  

In the name of truth finding, let us not continue this subject. I hope that the moderators of this note of mine and do the needful.

  

BVP is a public forum. It is not privy communication between two individuals.

  

**From legal aspect, any persons; taking objection and claiming to be hurt for religious offensive/ blasphemy take the writers and moderators to court/ police.**

  

We should be mindful that Cyber Law, is not yet formally amended. (Same provisions giving discretion for a willing Police Officer to arrest anyone for pressing LIKE button; are still in vogue, albeit with some some change in guidelines.)

  

Whatever is the case, this type BEEF discussion should be beefed up. (If the moderators are lenient, few people like us might be forced to leave BVP, because we do not know which law enforcement agency will take - what sort of view of each offensive comment.I am sure that, none of these scholastic personalities and votaries of free speech would stand in front line to defend all concerned and spare resources for the purpose.)

  

Due apologies for bringing stark reality to the notice of scholar community.

  

Personally, I opine that those who need clarifications/ information on contention issues, can seek guidance of scholars thru private communication, instead of putting the same in public forum.

  

Regards

Dr.Vamshi Krishna Ghanapathi



