+++
title = "000 R. Narayana iyengar"

+++
[[R. Narayana iyengar	2013-01-09, 21:44:39 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/QEEgqobfUMY)]]



Since the discussion under[शशशृङ्गम्](https://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat/t/5ed98b2c1ecbfed0)is about Vedanta, I am posting separately responding to Sri Vidyashankar & others.

I am attaching the complete CaraNavyUha (chapter 49) of AVP so that the tradition reflected therein would be clear. My interest is about the technical wordअलातम्. The dictionary meaning is Firebrand. Since the well known usage isअलातचक्रम्my guess (I may be wrong) is that the wordअलातम्by itself in the earlier (Vedic) period may not be referring to 'circular motion of a burning stick (human induced)'. The Bhaashya text posted by Sr.Subrahmanian

  

ऋजुवक्रादिप्रकाराभासमलातस्पन्दितमुल्काचलनं

  

is interesting. Here "ulkaa-chalanam" is "alaata-spandita", I hope I am not wrong if I say that this means 'meteor motion is perturbed by alaata'. AVP knows 'Alaata-shaanti' as an Upanishat but this is certainly not "Ulkaapaatashaanti" which AVP knows separately. The info provided by Dr.Bhat on the four divisions of the Kaarikaa with the titles corresponding to the AVP names seems to indicate the existence of some texts with the names Vaitathya, Advaita and Alaatashaanti. These words might have been only the starting (or prominent) words as 'Pratiika'. The list of 108 Upanishads published by Shastri (1900 Bangalore, Telugu script) does not list the above three names. The source for this list is the Muktikopanishad as pointed out by VidyaShankar. However 'Unpublished Upanishads' from Adayar (1933 Kunhan Raja) has one of the above namely, Advaita Upanishad made available. Whether it is same as the one that AVP lists is not clear.

  

The word "alaata" appears in MB several times. In the KarNaparvan

  

0080580141/.tatah.pradiiryata.camuur.dhanamjaya.zara.aahataa./

0080580143/.mahaa.vaata.samaaviddhaa.mahaa.naur.iva.saagare.//

0080580151/.naanaa.ruupaah.praharaNaah.zaraa.gaaNDiiva.coditaah./

0080580153/.alaata.ulkaa.azani.prakhyaas.tava.sainyam.vinirdahan.//

0080580161/.mahaa.girau.veNu.vanam.nizi.prajvalitam.yathaa./

0080580163/.tathaa.tava.mahat.sainyam.praasphurat.zara.piiDitam.//

  

0080590303/.ratha.azva.naaga.asu.harair.vadhyataam.arjuna.iSubhih.//30

0080590311/.haahaa.kRtam.bhRzam.tasthau.liiyamaanam.paras.param./

0080590313/.alaata.ccakravat.sainyam.tadaa.abbhramata.taavakam.//

0080590321/.aadiiptam.tava.tat.sainyam.zaraiz.chinna.tanuc.chadam./

0080590323/.aasiit.sva.zoNita.klinnam.phulla.azoka.vanam.yathaa.//

0080590331/.tad.dRSTvaa.kuravas.tatra.vikraantam.savya.saacinah./

  

In the s'alya-parvan in the sense of a comparison to GaaNDiiva and in the Kaartikeya episode once as a weapon, once as the name of a lady follower of Skanda. Since Skanda-Kaartikeya is in physical terms (not in esoteric terms) is an event of a celestial object falling down on earth connection between alaata and ulkaa is expected. But what exactly it is? Is it a long string (tail behind a meteor) which can be used to rotate a Chakra and send it to a long distance like a projectile?

  

0090030191/.simha.naadena.bhiimasya.paancajanya.svanena.ca./

0090030193/.gaaNDiivasya.ca.nirghoSaat.samhRSyanti.manaamsi.nah.//

0090030201/.caranti.iva.mahaa.vidyun.muSNanti.nayana.prabhaam./

0090030203/.alaatam.iva.ca.aaviddham.gaaNDiivam.samadRzyata.//20

0090030211/.jaambuunada.vicitram.ca.dhuuyamaanam.mahad.dhanuh./

0090030213/.dRzyate.dikSu.sarvaasu.vidyud.abhra.ghaneSv.iva.//

0090030221/.udyamaanaz.ca.kRSNena.vaayunaa.iva.balaahakah./

  

0090430273/.saadRzaani.vapuumSy.anye.tatra.tatra.vyadhaarayan.//

0090430281/.kecit.zaila.ambuda.prakhyaaz.cakra.alaata.gadaa.aayudhaah./

0090430283/.keccid.anjana.punja.aabhaah.kecit.zveta.acala.prabhaah.//

0090430291/.sapta.maatR.gaNaaz.caiva.samaajagmur.vizaam.pate./

  

0090450073/.giita.priyaa.ca.kalyaaNii.kadrulaa.ca.amita.azanaa.//

0090450081/.megha.svanaa.bhogavatii.subhruuz.ca.kanakaavatii./

0090450083/.alaata.akSii.viiryavatii.vidyuj.jihvaa.ca.bhaarata.//

0090450091/.padmaavatii.sunakSatraa.kandaraa.bahu.yojanaa./

  

'Alaata' as an object seems to have close connection with 'ulkaa' but the two are not same.

I look forward to hear more about this topic.

  

  

Thanks

  

RN Iyengar

