+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2011-11-26, 19:25:35 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/MobxBPJEQBk)]]



<http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.com/2011/11/decoding-indus-hieroglyphs-which-appear.html> Updated Nov. 26, 2011  

  

23.11.11  
Decoding Indus script hieroglyphs which appear with Brahmi-Kharoshthi inscriptions  
  
Updated Nov. 25 and 26, 2011 \[Indian Epigraphy from Kara-Tepe in Old Termez; Salihundam stupa site; Taxila coins (Bactria-Greek interaction area)\]  
  
Suniti Kumar Chatterjee had noted that kharoṣṭhī is a Sanskrit formation, meaning 'art of writing' derived from the Hebrew Harosheth.  
  
Harosheth (Hebrew) may be relatable to the word: kharoṣṭhī as the script used by smiths who made iron war-chariots armed with scythes. Harosheth (workmanship) "of the Gentiles" so called from the mixed races that inhabited it --a city in the north of the land of Canaan, supposed to have stood on the west coast of the lake Merom from which the Jordan issues forth in one unbroken stream. The name in the Hebrew is Harosheth ha Gojim, i.e., "the smithy of the nations;" probably, as is supposed, so called because here Jabin's iron war-chariots, armed with scythes, were made. It is identified with el-Harithiyeh.<http://topicalbible.org/h/harosheth.htm>  
  
In the context of a report (2000) on the finds of 174 Kuninda coins in Pandola village, Indus hieroglyphs which appear together with inscriptions in Brahmi-Kharoshthi scripts on some Pulinda (Kuninda) coins can be explained...

  

...The use of Greek/kharoṣṭhī scripts together with Indus script glyphs can thus be explained. Greek/kharoṣṭhī scripts were used to transcribe name of the issuing ruler (in this case, Agathokles). Indus script glyphs were used to provide specifications of the materials handled in the mint: minerals, metals, alloys, ingots and furnaces/smelters...

  

Read on... <http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.com/2011/11/decoding-indus-hieroglyphs-which-appear.html>

  
--  

Kalyanaraman

  

> 
> > 
> > [Indus script cipher: Hieroglyphs of Indian linguistic area > (2010)](http://tinyurl.com/cpj7bqs) >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Member, Action Committee Against Corruption in India (ACACI) >
> 
> > 

  

  

