+++
title = "001 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2011-12-05, 06:34:53 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/dLmqzeqsc3o)]]



Namaskar Scholars,

  

IMO - Science does not really contradict with any of the core principles described in Vaidika literature. It is our misunderstanding that creates issues.  

  

Science, if looked upon as a process for acquiring knowledge that leads to truth there is no issue. Is this not what gaNesha athervashiiSAha tells us? tvaM j\~naanamayo vij\~naana mayosi  

  

If one accepts that everything is based on knowledge, everything is sustained because of knowledge and everything dissolves in knowledge
This is nothing more than a cycle of knowledge.

  

sarvaM jagadidam tvatto jaayate

sarvaM jagadidam tvatatiShThati

sarvaM jadadidam tvyi layameShyati

  

and finally sarvaM jagadidam tvayi pratyeti

  

This is a cycle of knowledge that is common to all knowledge, whether Veda or Science.

  

In science, scientific process starts with existing knowledge:

  

So some hypothesis is generated or prosed, which based upon existing knowledge gets evaluated and scrutinized through experimental observations. When observations coincide with hypothesis then scientists claim that they have found the truth. However, when this doe snot happen then scientists create a new hypothesis and go on the fishing expedition of finding truth.  

  

It is our ignorance that we try to keep everything separate through compartmentalization. I say so because gaNesha doses not need knowledge we need to knowledge and the correct perspective of that knowledge. After-all knowledge is know through knowledge itself - j\~naayate anena iti  

  

It is really surprising why Sanskrit scholars get upset when it comes to science, because it is not just the laboratory and test tubes, but needs to to be looked upon as an overall process of acquiring knowledge.  

  
IMO - vij\~naanam yaj\~nam taut karmaaNi tanute pi ca \|\| tai. upa 2.5.5.1 \|\|  
  
I look forward to hearing views from Sanskrit scholars as well as Scientists on this list.  
  

Best regards,

  

Dr. Yadu  

  

  

  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**From:** ramanath \<[rnpm...@gmail.com]()\>  
**To:** भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत् \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
**Sent:** Sunday, December 4, 2011 5:08 PM  
**Subject:** {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Vedic Science and Physical science  

  
We always claim that our scriptures are treasure of knowledge and  
information sciences because we have faith in the words of our  
scriptures i.e. Vedas and its allied (VedAngas). There are several  
passages in Vedas and their allied subjects which clearly mention that  
the Science of Vedas is the supreme if taken into consideration for  
research work in any field of studies of all times. The Science, in  
the terms of Vedic literature, is the source of all kinds of knowable  
objects. (ChAndogyopaniSad ) 7.7.1  
Therefore, Vedas are revealed texts rather than manmade. The basic  
difference between revealed text and manmade text is that former is  
the source of knowledge while latter is the source of information.  
Thus, all the texts, other than the Vedic literature, being manmade  

are subjected to test in \~nam tanute karmaaNi tanute pi caour practical life for being authority.

  
However, this concept seems to be biased in the context of modern  
sciences. In fact, both might be considered on the logical point of  
view and must be in conformity to each other.  
  

--  
अथ चेत्त्वमिमं धर्म्यं संग्रामं न करिष्यसि।  
ततः स्वधर्मं कीर्तिं च हित्वा पापमवाप्स्यसि।।  
तस्मादुत्तिष्ठ कौन्तेय युद्धाय कृतनिश्चयः।  
निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
  
  

