+++
title = "000 S.Subrahmanya"

+++
[[S.Subrahmanya	2015-08-01, 16:56:06 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/8sZua0gzjeU)]]



  

As the usual rageboys of indology pontificate on plagiarism. I would like to submit the whole edifice of indology is based on plagiarism.

Knowledge that has been stolen under the guise of using native informants , who after all are the target of study and thus dont have to be acknowledged.

  

Initially, the brits would have individiduals go to library collections held by Indian kings and get translations done by hiring local brahmins.

I remember reading a book from the 1800's in google-archives, which documents the efforts and salaries that were being paid for this ( I unfortunately

lost this link. If anybody finds it - please do post it on this group) 

There is a whole area to be explored and documented on how the brits and other europeans used to translate from sanskrit into english

and also stole technologies (be it in textiles, medicinal knowledge, metallurgy, ship-building etc) .

  

Considering the level of scholarship needed to understand the traditional sanskrit texts , it would have been highly impossible for a european to

become an expert in sanskrit without being in India for a long time and taking a lot of help from indian scholars.

Do the well known 19th century indologists acknowledge who helped them. This is a puzzling issue indeed.

  

Even today, a typical indology student comes to india every year , spends a few months learning from Indian scholars and then goes

back and spews out eurocentric spin. Most of these indologists then consider these Indian scholars as mere informants who do

not deserve any credit.

I wonder if indologists would subject themselves to scrutiny on who they studied with, and if they have clearly credited the knowledge

that has been gained from indian scholars.

This is an area for further investigation and research.

  

S.Subrahmanya

  

