+++
title = "004 rniyengar"

+++
[[rniyengar	2012-05-03, 07:28:00 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/H5cK3nOGce4)]]



Dear DR.Joshi, Here is my take on your question.  
  
Pas'yantI is that faculty of our mind that is independent of any  
structured language such as English, Chinese, Kannada etc. In other  
words it is the starting phase where the transition between pure  
ideation and expression (mental) arises. Example: Suppose I ask in a  
class consisting of international students what is the result of a  
simple sum like 23x17. That is I am lecturing using English as the  
medium of vocalization (vaikhari).The students will work this on their  
papers MENTALLY muttering seventeen-three-sa-fifttyone; HadinELu-  
moorly-eivattondu; PdinEzhu-mUnr-eimbattonn; similarly in Hindi,  
Chinese etc. As the teacher I will do this in KannaDa  
(mentally)because I was taught like that in my childhood days. This is  
the Madhyama stage, where a medium is required even for elders. But  
when the final result 391 is announced by all, there is a translation  
stage to Vaikhari but I surmise there has to be a state/stage or  
process that is independent of structured language because all get the  
same answer! This is what I suppose to be due to 'pas'yantI'. \[This is  
similar to a dream state where blocks of information get exchanged  
whithout uttering or speech; I mean even dream-speech\].  
  
This example could perhaps be generalized to say Pas'yantI is the  
faculty existing in all human beings to various degrees to behold or  
percieve commonality of even unspoken ideas. Hence  
'guro:stu mounam vyaakhyaanam s'is.yaah chhinnasams'ayaah\|' is a  
distinct possibility. However, all pas'yantI need not be 'Pramaa'; it  
may be contaminated at least partly with 'Bhramaa'. But that is  
another topic.  
  
Dhanyo'smi  
  
RN Iyengar  

  
On May 2, 12:53am, "Gmail Team" \<[girav...@juno.com]()\> wrote:  

î—“

\> The Stunning Results of Her Wrinkle Trick Has Botox Doctors Worriedhttp://[thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3141/4fa03f641b5fdc65a6cst06vuc](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3141/4fa03f641b5fdc65a6cst06vuc)

