+++
title = "001 R. Narayana iyengar"

+++
[[R. Narayana iyengar	2013-01-20, 07:47:40 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/iK5pnjg0dSU)]]



Dear Dr.Joshi,

First of all please do not make isolated posts. I read all your posts but many times hesitate to respond, as it is too difficult to keep continuity when the thread is broken.

  

I did not ask for the text from MB; my query was general. There are two claims made by you (following PHAI by Choudhuri). 1. मटची = Locust.

2\. that this event was thesecond calamity.

  

Please clarify:

What was the first calamity? What happened during the supposed first calamity?

As far as my knowledge goes the upanishad sentenceमटची हतेषु कुरुषु आटिक्या सह जायया ...has been used in dharmashastra texts for defining the wordआटिक्या. But the wordमटची is an orphan in Sanskrit. By this I mean it has been used only once in the whole of Sanskrit literature. Hence the meaning of the word is debatable. I am more interested in the event, but the character of the natural event depends crucially on this special word ! I recollect the Upanishad-bhaashya of Shankara (or Gaud.apaada?) explains this word as 'a shower of stones' or thunderbolts. Max Mueller's SBE also says so. Also see the attachment below from the Vedic Index. Locust is not attested by the Bhaas.ya tradition. The traditional explanation matches with a meteorite shower. Hailstones will not possibly destroy a whole region or province. The explanation of some red matter (special birds) falling on ground matches with the River Sarasvati turning red (flowing blood) as mentioned in the Braahaman.a texts.Only the recent Ramakrishna-math book (Mysore Kannada translation) explain this as 'locust' but I believe the traditional explanation is more reliable. For political history the nature of the calamity may not be important, but to decide which was first and which was second we have to get into finer details.

  

Regards

RNI  
  

. Dr RNI asked me the verses from the  

> Mahabharata for second calamity on Kurus. My information is from the  
> pages 29 and 30 of the book "Political History Ancient India" by Dr.  
> H. Ray choudhuri. He gave reference of Chhandogya Upanis'at. This  
> happened at the time of Janaka 1. Ushasti Chaakraayan from Kuru  
> country participated in philosophical discussions in the court of  
> Janaka1. For locust the word used is Matachi (Sanskritization of  
> Kannada word-Midiche),Janaka1 flourished 200 years after Parikshit. > I  
> do not know if one expects this to be the part of the Mahabharata of  
> Vyaasa. If some body says his Mahabharata is authentic relative to  
> other books, then here is the question. There is the name of Yaaska > in  
> the present edition of MBH. (Appendix RayChoudhuri). This point was  
> discussed before on BVparishat. Here is another question The  
> Mahabharata uses this term in the  
> Dronaparvan:काम्भोजानांसहस्रैश्चशकानांचविशाम्पते।  

> शबराणांकिरातानांबर्बराणांत थैवच।। (महाभारतम् 5-119-53)The Mahabharata

>   
> uses this term in the > Dronaparvan:काम्भोजानांसहस्रैश्चशकानांचविशाम्पते।  

> शबराणांकिरातानांबर्बराणांत थैवच।। (महाभारतम् 5-119-53) How did Vyaasa



