+++
title = "002 VKG"

+++
[[VKG	2014-05-11, 05:35:56 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/WoNFijxVMbw)]]



Pranaama.

The question is not that Samaveda is Pourusheya or Apourusheya. Traditional view is that Sama Veda is Apourusheya only. We all hold the same belief.

But the question is only Prakruti Gaanam is Apourusheya and Vikruti Gaanam being a variant, is Pourusheya, because the pattern on which VIkruti is based is dictated by Sutra Kaaras. Since, the pattern is prescribed by Rishis, in their words and followed ... it is construed as Pourusheya by Meemaamsaka.

  

Nidaana Sutram of Samaveda seems to disagree to the position held by Jaimini Maharshi (Meemaamsa).

  

Wherever the Yaajnika Samaakhyaa provides for (either by the virtue of Veda Vakya Patterns/ Sutram), scope for Pourusheyatwa arises.

  

Please refer to the words of Patanjali. Raksha - Ooha - Aagama - Laghu - Asandehaah Prayojanam. (as benefits of Vyakaranam.)

Here, the second benefit Ooha provides for Mantra Sannaama ...

If Veda gives the pattern - **Agnaye Jushtam Nirvapaami.**

Based on the context of different Yaaga (Ishti) --- **Vishwebhyo Devebhyo Jushtam Nirvapaami or Ashwibhyaam Jushtam Nirvapaami.)**

Here, the second sentence automatically becomes Pourusheya. (This is the position of Meemaamsakas ... as I gather.)

Regards

**Similarly patterns of Prakruti Gaanam are followed in Ooha Gaanam and Oohya Gaanam, as per the Shiksha Shaastra. Hence, the question.**.

VKG

(Dr. Vamshi Krishna Ghanapaathi)



