+++
title = "004 VKG"

+++
[[VKG	2014-05-12, 06:55:03 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/WoNFijxVMbw)]]



Dr. Bhat

I am

not sure, whether your suggestion about precision of question is addressed to me. If so, my question is very clear - about Pourusheyatwa of Ooha/ Oohya Gaanam in respect with Prakruti Gaanam. This was my actual question. You can refer to the original posting.

  

This subquery about Pourusheyatwa of entireSamaveda,was raised by Swamy Suprajnananda. I was only explaining my question. (Prakruti Gaanam part of Samaveda is Apourusheya and Vikruti Gaanam consisting of Ooha & Oohya is Pourusheya - this is the position of Meemaamsakas.)

  

References to Nidaana Sutram and Jaimini Sutram are quoted from the dissertation of Sri Murali Krishna Srouti by Shreyas and the pages are scanned, you can see. (Hence I need not give the details again. I dont have copy of Nidaana Sutram.)

  

I do not agree to the conclusion of Prof. Korada, that there cannot be Vikruti for Sama Veda. It is contrary to the Adhyayana Paramparaa, the tradition which we revere.

As far as we are concerned; Vedic Texts and traditions do not regard the position of Paanini as sacrosanct. Shiksha Shaastra is paramount. (Lakshya is more important than the diverging Lakshanam.)

  

To know the difference between Ooha and Oohya Gaanam, it is good to consult a Saama Veda Scholar, who could explain the Vikaaras (changes) of 18 -20 types. (Briefly Oohya is based on the patterns of aranye Geya Gaanam and Ooha is based on the pattern of Graame Geya Gaanam).

  

Anyhow, thanks for the information given by Shreyas, which added value to this discussion. My query was based on that dissertation only that Ooha is also Apourusheya (based on Nidaana Sutram). Is this contrary to the Jaimini. The quoted phrase of Shaabara Bhaasya concludes, **Ooha is Krutrima.**

  

**Nyaaya Viruddham Apramaanam.** The Smruti Vaakya which is contrary to the logic is not Pramaanam, is the position of Shabara Swamy.

  

Similarly, Ooha parts of Yajurveda (with mantra sannaama) such as Vishwebhyo vo Devebhyo Jushtam Gruhnaami have to be regarded as Pourusheya.

  

Regards to Dr.Bhat and Dr. Korada.

VKG



