+++
title = "012 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-07-13, 13:24:55 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/Q4CifnaN3uI)]]



Namaste





The basis for marathi usage \< Corney Bacterium Diphtheria". > may be connected with Lexicon entry : **Meaning of Kṛṣṇa-sarpa**, as, m. a very poisonous snake, Cobra de Capello, Colubra Naga; (ā), f. a plant, in **Cologne dictionary**, under the entry of term ‘*Kṛṣṇa*’.



A further suggestion to understand ‘ghaTa-sarpa’- the Samskruth term meaning , may be from a different perspective of ‘ Yoga’ as pointed by Dr. Krishna Kaashyap, with anchor to two verb-roots (dhaatu) : ghaTa’ and ‘sarpa’ ( a samAsa of akrudanta , with two verbs – ghaT
and sarp - coming together) .



***( Note***: The testing of the witness for the ‘satya’ – Truth value by Divine witness standard is referred to by Avadhani Ganesh. Similar stories of putting hand in the snake pit, holding the red hot iron, dipping in burning oil etc; are ‘ evoking the fear, to keep the individuals in check on the lane of Dharma- practice’. If one is interested in exploring the theme of ‘ naaga-manDala’ ( story theme and movie: Girish Karnad - <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nagamandala> . Naga Mandala by Girish Karnad is a play where myth takes over reality. Girish Raghunath Karnad is a contemporary Indian playwright, actor and movie director in Kannada language. He is among the seven recipients of Jnanpith Award for Kannada, the highest literary honor conferred in India. Connecting the term to political context or women’s deplorable social state is an exit lane of this study. 





***VIEW -1***:

‘ghaTa’- is representation for Shareera ( Body), also referred to as ‘ kuNDa’.

‘Sarpa’ - is snake, which ( is said to ) live on ‘ air ( = vaayu).



Put together ‘ ghata-sarpa :: snake in the body – referring to the ‘ Kundalini’. The snake that resides in the body.



Usage : swapishi kula-kuNDe vihariNi’ – Saudarya lahiri referring to ‘ kuNDlini’.



***VIEW-2*** : 



‘ghaTa’ - is representation for Shareera ( Body).



‘Sarpa’ - is what moves / moves inside , what causes movement.



Put together : ‘ ghata-sarpa :: is JEEVA /Prana-Vaayu. The prANa which makes the body move.



Usage: nAnA- chidra- **ghaTOdara-sthita**- mahA- dIpa-prabhA-bhAswaraM’ ( dakshinaamurthy stotra). The representation of ‘ five hooded Cobra ( **panchpHaNA) – nAga’** iconicity to show the ‘ Five prANa’s’.

 The visual icon of Patanjali with a several snake
hoods may be contemplated. ‘ sahasra- phaNAnvita’ is the great snake Shesha on which Vishnu sleeps.







***Additional words and term-meaning-modeling perspective to contemplate to derive Samskruth Term meanings and use of lexicons***:




The context of this discussion on ‘ ghata-sarpa’ provides a platform to point out the difference between the approach in understanding Samskruth terms in classical context and modern lexicon context.



Terms analogous to the term ‘ghaTa-sarpa’ are ‘kAla-sarpa / kALA sarpa/ krishna –sarpa/ kAlinga sarpa / visHa sarpa – in the same sense of a fierce venomous black snake.



Interestingly many users prefer to work with the ‘ tatpurusha samasa’ model of analysis for ‘ krishna-sarpa’ term and qualify the color of snake as ‘ black’.

While all black snakes are not venomous or ferocious, the connotation from the term ‘ Ghata-Sarpa / Krishna - Sarpa / kAla sarpa are practically used as interchangeable !



Practical Social usage (vyavahAra / laukika artha) and ‘Yoga-Samskrutham ( yaugikArtha – Nirulti /Nirvachana) ‘ usage many times does not necessarily get connected or become substitutable !!.



Traditional lexicographers like Shada-kalpadruma stay anchored to (**pada-artha-nirukti** ) following **pada-shaastra - nirvachana** ( = Grammar rule based derivation. Grammar is Pada-shaastra/ Vyaakarana).

***‘ shAstra-*** ***paribhAshA*** technicality is over and above this.



Modern lexicographers like Monier Williams / Apte stay with ‘ current understanding in classical literature ( kaavya) and prioritize this as primary meaning, aligning ‘Samskrutham’ term with ‘ Prakrut - / Desi usage’. The modern lexicon / = dictionary is a pooling of meanings associated with the term in usage, sans context/ or conceived context of text, with overriding assumptions and axioms. 

Such term-meaning- pooling with scant respect for the ‘Vyakarana- Nirukti’ - makes the distinction between Sanskrit – lexicon and Sanskrit Thesaurus fade out. 



Lexicon / Term meaning /PADAARTHA -NIRUKTI- NIRVACHANA is anchored to Vyakarana. 



 Thesaurus / KOSHA- words with proximate meaning organized and pooled together as ‘ VARGAS’ is anchored to usage. ( Amara Kosha / Shabda Kalpadruma and the like)



AMARA-KOSHA is organized and pooled together with an anchor to ‘ PANINIAN GRAMMAR DERIVATION’. 



Modern Lexicons pool several associated usage-meanings by ‘ Term-sound –similarity’. ( Monier Williams, Apte et al. Here Samskruth is modeled on Roman/English structure, for an intended convenience.).



Modern translators take lexicon- pooled term meaning as source and
make serious overriding errors by exercising personal choice-preferred meaning selection / filtered -reconstruction to support their
theories.



*The error is in the axiom* : Thee ‘ SAMSKRUTH’ terms are ‘ replaceable/ substitutable by value and meaning’. Example : ‘Agni’ can be substituted by ‘ vahni’.

 This axiom works in ‘ many non-samskruth languages’ and literary usage of ‘Samskruth ( kaavya –vyavahaara).

 This axiom fails in ‘SAMSKRUTHAM’ – Shaastra usage / Veda (Chandas). 

 Explore the Sutra : 1\\.2\\.53 tadashiShyaM saMj\~nApramANatvAt .

  Also explore the kArikA : sam\~jnA ca paribhAShA caiva ,vidhirniyama eva ca ….. which defines the pedagogic method of ofrmulatin the sutra. 



For contemplation please.



Regards

BVK Sastry



