+++
title = "000 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2012-01-16, 17:22:47 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/Vd7G-8W-1F0)]]



Dear Kalyanaraman,



Pranaams.



I know that Historians adopt their own methodology in research; and, by and large, ignore evidences inherent in Indian scriptures. For example, the Hindu almanacs, which were verily the Hindu registry of Time; and the Manusmrithi. Valmiki Ramayana refers to written texts.

charitam chakaara 1-3-9 and 1-3-40

**(UÉ¥ÉÈ zÉÉxÉlÉqÉÉSÉrÉ cÉÉåSrÉxuÉ lÉ×mÉwÉïpÉÉlÉç)** (1-13-27)



Further, modern science has totally ignored the Biblical chronography propounded by Max Muller, and is now converging on Manusmrithi. Very recently, the remains of a Man Erectus, said to be 20 million years old was found in Africa, [acc.to](http://acc.to) press reports.



In view of these recent findings over the past two years, while your views that the Harappan seals are linked to MleCcha glyphs are acceptable, I do not know how your findings can lead one to conclude that the inverntion of writing, according to the Press Release of course, is attributable to c.3500 B.C.



The Historians' theories about evolution of life, the Geologists' theories and the Modern Scientists' theroies are at loggerheads with one another; and with the Indian scriptures in toto. Then the former theologians have to explain how and why the universe, at least trillions of years old, was dormant for trillions of years; and what made to sprout life when a few thousands of years ago.



Further, the very division of languages (Indian) as Aryan and Dravidian are unscientific. Always one with a strong database gives birth to other langauages and not vice versa. There will always be accretions natural to every region and every epoch of time; resulting in the growth of languages.



Anyway, I eagerly await your book, without reading which it is too premature to comment on the basis of press releases.



Yours sincerly,

s.r.krishna murthy.

  
  


On Sat, Jan 14, 2012 at 9:17 PM, S. Kalyanaraman \<[kaly...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> <http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.com/2012/01/indian-hieroglyphs-invention-of-writing.html> >
> 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > ## 14.1.12 >
>  style="LINE-HEIGHT:16px;FONT-FAMILY:Arial,Tahoma,Helvetica,FreeSans,sans-serif;COLOR:rgb(34,34,34);FONT-SIZE:12px"> >
> 
> > 
> > ### *Indian Hieroglyphs - Invention of Writing*:
> > ### Book by Dr. S. Kalyanaraman published (2012) >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > **Press release, Jan. 15, 2012, Hendon, VA.** >
> 
> > 
> > **  
> ** >
> 
> > 
> > Sarasvati Research Center announces publication from Amazon, of a book > which is a game-changer in the study of civilizations and early > evolution of writing systems. >
> 
> > 
> > ISBN978-0982897126Library of Congress Control Number LCCN: > 2011963130 798 pages. >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > The book links the invention of writing to the inventions of > bronze-age technologies. >
> 
> > 
> > The book reaffirms Tolkappiyan’s dictum and makes a significant > contribution to language studies – to general semantics, in > particulars: all words are semantic indicators.The book is a > hermeneutic interpretation of Indian hieroglyphsin the context of > invention and evolution of writing systems c. 3500 BCE, general > semantics of Indian linguistic area (*sprachbund*, language union) and > cryptography. Semantics (plain text) and cipher(glyphics) are > presented.As an exercise in cryptanalysis, the*cyphertext*is > unraveled with specific, matching evidences of*plaintext*of Indian > linguistic area, in an archaeo-metallurgical context.Identifying
> the*lingua franca*of the Indus age and using hermeneuticsas the > science of discovering new meanings and interpretations interpretive > effort leadsto the decoding of most of Indian hieroglyphsas the > repertoire of miners and metalsmiths of the civilization in a > linguistic area.Indus script is claimed to be one of the earliest > writing systems of the world dated to c. 3500 BCE. >
> 
> > 
> > The underlying language was Meluhha (Mleccha). >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Indus Script was hieroglyphic. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Vivid graphics were used, pictures were embellished with ligatures to > convey specific technical meanings related to bronze-age metallurgy. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Messages recorded the repertoire of artisans, lapidaries and smiths > who had started working with minerals and metals together with shell, > ivory,semi-precious stones to make and to trade in ornaments, tools > and weapons. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Meluhhans using Indus script inscriptions traded across the Persian > Gulf, and interacted with regions of Bactria-Margiana, Elam and > Mesopotamia. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > The vast interaction region across Ancient Near East and Indian > subcontinent was Harosheth Hagoyim, ‘smithy of nations’. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > The book claims that Indian language union (sprachbund or Indian > linguistic area) dates back to the period when Indus script was used. > About 1000 lexemes of Meluhha (mleccha) have been identified and > explained in the context of ciphertext of Indian hieroglyphs. These > substratum glosses are the foundation for further studies in the > evolution of languages and linguistic features absorbed from one > another, in Indian language union (sprachbund). >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Using evidence from almost all hieroglyphs in the 6000 + inscriptions, > this book makes a contribution to an understanding of the middle phase > in evolution of writing systems, a phase which bridged pictographic > writing with syllabic writing to represent sounds of a language called > meluhha (mleccha) in Indian language union – lingua franca > of*Harosheth hagoyim*, smithy of nations. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > The continuum of hieroglyph tradition in Indian linguistic area is > evaluated in the context of continued use of Indian hieroglyphs on > thousands of punch-marked coins together with syllabic scripts of > kharosti and brahmi . >
> 
> > 
> > The book establishes that ancient India was a language union with > speakers of Munda, Dravidian and Indo-Aryan languages learning > technical words related to bronze-age metallurgy from one another. > They used these words in the writing system. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > The book draws heavily from a multi-lingual dictionary of over 25 > ancient languages called Indian Lexicon for unraveling the cipher of > the Indus script, as an exercise in solving a cryptography problem. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > The writing system was called mlecchita vikalpa (Cryptography of > Meluhhas/Mlecchas) and is mentioned in an 8th century BCE work by > Vatsyayana. The Indian hieroglyphs find their echoes in the goat-fish > hieroglyphs on a ritual basin of Uruk (Sumer) and the Egyptian > hieroglyph for Bat showing a mudhif reed symbol which also occurs on > Uruk basin. The 'reed' read rebus denotes Glyph: eruva ‘reed’. Rebus: > eruva ‘copper’. Also discussed are some Egyptian hieroglyph parallels
> from the statue of Hathor-Menkaure-Bat triad of the fourth dynasty and > the continued tradition of building reed huts by Todas comparable to > the mudhifs of ancient Sumer. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > This book is a sequel to the author's Indus Script Cipher > (2010).<http://tinyurl.com/7dflhyq> >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > About the author >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Dr. S. Kalyanaraman is Director, Sarasvati Research Center, President, > Ramasetu Protection Movement in India and BoD member of World > Association for Vedic Studies. His research interests relate to > rediscovery of Vedic Sarasvati River, roots of Hindu civilization, > decoding of Indus Script, National Water Grid and creation of Indian > Ocean Community. He has a Ph.D. in Public Administration from the > University of the Philippines. He is a multi-lingual scholar versed in > Tamil, Telugu, Kannada, Sanskrit, Hindi. He was a senior financial and > IT executive in Asian Development Bank, Manila, Philippines and on > Indian Railways. His 18 publications include:*Indian Lexicon*- a > multilingual dictionary for over 25 Indian languages,*Sarasvati*in > 15 volumes,*Indian Alchemy - Soma in the Veda, Indus Script Cipher, > Rastram*. He is a recipient of many awards including Vakankar Award > (2000), Shivananda Eminent Citizens’ Award (2008) and Dr. Hedgewar > Prajna Samman (2008). >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Website:<http://sites.google.com/site/kalyan97> Sarasvati Research > Center
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > <http://www.free-press-release.com/news-indian-hieroglyphs-a-book-by-dr-s-kalyanaraman-on-indus-script-1326546520.html>
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > <https://www.createspace.com/3727464> >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > [kaly...@gmail.com]()
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > --  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google  
> Groups "Foundation for Indian Scientific Heritage" group.  
> To post to this group, send email to  
> [foundation-for-india...@googlegroups.com]()  
> To unsubscribe from this group, send email to  
> [foundation-for-indian-scie...@googlegroups.com]()  
> For more options, visit this group at  
> <http://groups.google.co.in/group/foundation-for-indian-scientific-heritage?hl=en?hl=en-GB>  
> HERITAGE AWARENESS MAKES AN ENLIGHTENED CITIZEN.

  

