+++
title = "001 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2012-01-16, 21:53:56 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/Vd7G-8W-1F0)]]



I did not know that bvparishat was returning your mails. But I am regularly following your mails; perhaps thro' Foundation of Indian Scientific Heritage.



My address:

s.r.krishna murthy,

No.7, 36th Main, Bhavani HBCS,

Banagirinagar, BSK 3rd Stage,

Bangalore - 560 085, INDIA.

ph. [+91 80 26795127](tel:+91%2080%202679%205127)



After receipt of the book, I will request the Mythic Society, Bangalore to hod a symposium on the book, under intimation to you.



Yours fraternally,

s.r.krishna murthy  
  

On Mon, Jan 16, 2012 at 5:56 PM, S. Kalyanaraman \<[kaly...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> I don't know why my cc to bvparishat is not accepted. Are my postings > blocked there? >
> 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Kalyanaraman >
> 
> > 
> >   
>   
> > 
> > On Mon, Jan 16, 2012 at 5:54 PM, S. Kalyanaraman > \<[kaly...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  
> > > Dhanyavaadaah. > > > > 
> > > >   
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > I will be happy to ask Amazon to send you the book for review. > > Please send me the mailing address. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > >   
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > The main issue dealt in the tome of 798 pages relates to the > > evidence of over 6000 inscriptions in the so-called Indus script. > > Vatsyayana called it mlecchita vikalpa. Invention of writing > > occurred in phases. This phase was the hieroglyphic phase, later > > were the syllabic scripts ofkharo*ṣṭī* and *br**āhm**ī .* I have > > produced evidence that both hieroglyphic and syllabic scripts were > > used in tens of thousands of punch-marked coins, on Rampurva copper > > bolt and on Sohgaura copper plate. Hieroglyphic writing tradition > > continued with glyphs likeśrivatsa and svastikāwhich have also > > been explained. Yes, this writing system is evidenced > > archaeologically to c. 3500 BCE. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > >   
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Namaskaram. kalyanaraman > > > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 



