+++
title = "000 Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma"

+++
[[Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma	2010-06-22, 04:57:02 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/NxQ1HcMWl9Y)]]



Hari: Om  
Namaste.  
  
\>There are three terms in Sanskrit language manas, cittam,  
and vijnyana(Buddhism). These three terms are generally use in same sense.  
In English mind and brain are synonymous, and consciousness  
is the state of being conscious or one’s awareness of something.  
  
While referring to terms let us make sure whether they are synonymous or not  
in different systems. The two disciplines in the context seem to be modern medical  
science on one hand and the ancient Indian system on the other. Perhaps, the  
Samskrutam/Sanskrit lore.  
  
Mana:,chittam and vijnanam actually are not always used in the same sense. These  
are terms which have specific definitions can mean 1)a function 2) an inner instrument  
3)a term to denote collectively all functions depending upon the particular context.  
  
Antah-karanam(inner instrument)as opposed to baahya-karanam(external instrument) in Vedantic parlance has 4(chatushtayam) vrutties viz a)mana-b)buddhi-c)chittam-d)ahankara.  
a)sankalpa-vikalpaatmakam manah b)vyavasaayaatmikaa antakarana vruttih buddhih c)anusandhaanaatmikaa vruttih chittam d) ahankaaraatmikaa vruttih ahankaarah.  
English Dictionary meaning would be highly misleading for more than one reason. Sanskrit terms should be explained and understood ONLY in Sanskrit.Sorry for not following this here.  
  
Please find out what determines the inner and outer in the context. Is the physical body the locus of reference? Is it inside and outside of the skin/skull? Take for example, the expression indriya-golakam. Chakshu(eye) is the physical organ whereas the the center of processing visual images in the brain is relatively inner, which may be the indriya-golakam.  
  
Further, the concept of sthoola(gross) and sookshma(subtle) shariiram(body) should be understood correctly for complete understanding of the above terms in the Vedantic context.  
stoola-shariiram is bhogaayatanam(tenement for experience) and sookshma-shariiram is bhogasadhanam(instrument of experience). By definition sookshma-shariiram cannot be the brain nor the heart. It is subtle, intangible. But not inexperienceble. It is seen from another level of consciousness, yogi-pratyaksham.  
  
How to bring this within the purview of modern medical terms like the brain? That it is not possible at present does not invalidate the experience or the system which explains it.  
  
Maharshi Patanjali uses chittam in the context of defining what yogah is, in a different sense.  
These two systems viz Vedanta and Yoga should not be mixed up and mistaken for having synonymous usage. Much less the lump of gray matter be taken for manah.  
  
What we require is developing references with context specific, understandable, non-dictionary paribhaashaa of each discipline and juxtapose the experiences therein.  
The task is not easy. Being authentic in text and experience is a rare combination.  
  
\>My question is related to the cognitive science in the context of  
Sanskrit literature.  
  
Where is systematically streamlined description of cognitive science in Sanskrit literature?  
A motley of quotations with guessing of meanings would betray the efforts and purpose.  
This is an absorbing area of fascinating study which is at once walking on the razor's edge because one should not do any injustice to any discipline.  
  
I am working on these topics from the level of experiences. An International Conference for three days at Udupi (Puthige Veda Vidyaapeethom) is being planned during January 21-23, 2011. The main theme is "Decoding Veda Vidya for Rediscovering Indian Scientific Heritage".  
  
I would request Dr. Ramanath to work on this topic in depth and detail and present a paper. I will be happy to extend help in this regard.  
  
I wish that this post ought to have been in continuation with the discussion string so far built up on this topic. If it is found too long a string, those who take a fresh entry to this discussion  
are requested to read the earlier posts on this topic for better involvement.  
  
Saraswatirahasyopanishat provides a wonderful model of cognitive experience through the Indian classical music instrument VEENA. The Veena outside(maanushee veena) is a replica and reproduction of the veena inside(daivee veena). This needs to be explored.  
  
The Sanskrit mode sometimes does not work on my PC. Hence, the English script.  
  
Pranaams.  
  

2010/6/22 Dr ramanath \<[rnpm...@gmail.com]()\>  

> Respected scholars,  
> Namaskar,  
> First of all I thanks to Prof Dipak Bhattacarya for giveng reference  
> for the term Mastiska from Atharvaveda, I also very thakfull to > Prof.  
> Ramkrishn Sharma for his valuable thoughts on the subject..  
>   
> My question is related to the cognitive science in the context of  
> Sanskrit literature. Cognitive science is an interdisciplinary > system  
> of investigation dealing with how information is represented and  
> transformed in the brain. The brain is just a physical organ of a > body  
> which is the center of the nervous system in human beings and other  
> vertebrates. Thus cognitive science deals with multiple research  
> disciplines such as psychology, artificial intelligence, philosophy,  
> neuroscience, learning sciences, linguistics, anthropology, > sociology,  
> and education.  On the other hand in Sanskrit there are many > schools  
> which through light on the theories, religious practices, social  
> sciences and thus provide sufficient materials on philosophy,  
> Soteriology and various other relevant topics. There are three terms  
> in Sanskrit language manas, cittam, and vijnyana(Buddhism). These  
> three terms are generally use in same sense. In English mind and > brain  
> are synonymous, and consciousness is the state of being conscious > or  
> one’s awareness of something. According to Nyayavaisesika mana is  
> dravya and it controls all organs, tacca manah > sarvendriyapravartakam  
> Antarendriyam svasamyogena bahyendriyAnugrAhkam ata eva  
> sarvopalabdhikAranam(NyayakoSap.641). According to MAyAvadin  
> antahkaran is mana, samkalpavikalpAtmakvrittmadantahkarana mana  
> ityahuh, and according to them it is base of pleasure and pain. This  
> is the reason that Kalidasa asserts in Sakuntalm that – pramanam  
> antahkaranpravrittayah, here antahkarana means inner instrument of  
> knowledge, the mind. According to Vedanta Philosophy there are six  
> sene organs five external and one internal. BrihdAranyakopanisad  
> (1-5-3) states that everything depends upon mana. But in fact all  
> these statements indicates that mana (mind) is nothing but > conceptual  
> elements- Mana eva manusyanam karanam bandha moksayoh, this > statement  
> also supports this argument. In the light of the above it seems > that  
> status of mind is beyond reality . There are several references for  
> Mana-mind but I want some more references from Sanskrit text for  
> brain - as Prof. Dipak Bhattacarya quoted The word mastiska मस्तिष्क  
> occurs in the Atharvaveda also with the variant मष्टिप्स. What is  
> ancient Indian concept about brain references from Sanskrit text > will  
> be apreciated.  
>   
> --  
> अथ चेत्त्वमिमं धर्म्यं संग्रामं न करिष्यसि।  
> ततः स्वधर्मं कीर्तिं च हित्वा पापमवाप्स्यसि।।  
> तस्मादुत्तिष्ठ कौन्तेय युद्धाय कृतनिश्चयः।  
> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  

  
  
  
--  
Aangirasa/Dr.S.Ramakrishna Sharma. M.A.,Ph.D.(Eng.Lit.),Ph.D.(Sanskrit.).  

