+++
title = "000 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2015-10-10, 02:20:57 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/SXVWT2XB9XQ)]]



Oct 9, 2015

Dear Prof Deshpande,

Many thanks for the research paper on Mimaamsaa and Mlecchas. Your paper is loaded with information. I am happy I read it in full. Here are my thoughts referring to lines from your paper.

(1) From very ancient times there were hundreds of tribes dwelling in the ancient land of undivided India. Books of Savitra Saxena, Bharadvaja, Law, Singh and of many other authors on the history of Ancient India offer details of these tribes.

(2) Reference to soldiers of the cow of Vasishtha. SamvaraNa Kuru came to take shelter near Sindhu river, He was helped by Vasishtha. It is expected soldiers of his cow to come from tribes of that region-Shakas,Kambojas, Pahlavas, Mlecchas, Kiratas.

Pishachas (Vas’anins) Daradas were also located in the same region-west of Sindhu river to Kabul river .

(3) I mentioned that Mlecchas were related to Aryas. Your paper refers to the possibility of common origin. Shrikant Talgeri discussed Anus and their connection to the same region on the border of Afghanistan and Pakistan.

(4) Yudhisthira Mimaansaka discussed the possibility of Sanskrit being spoken over much wider region than the region known to the Indian authors from the time period of 700 BC to 700 AD.

(5) Let us not forget that languages are not static, they change with time and region. Thanks for sharing valuable information with us. N. R. Joshi

  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: Madhav Deshpande \<[mmd...@umich.edu]()\>  
To: "[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()" \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} refere nce to the classification of languages in sanskrit literature  
Date: Tue, 6 Oct 2015 18:31:08 -0400  
  

Dear Dr. Joshi,



  I have attached the pdf of an article of mine dealing with Mimamsa discussions regarding the usage of the Mlecchas. This was published in 2008, and may be of interest to you and others. With best wishes,



Madhav Deshpande

Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA

  

On Tue, Oct 6, 2015 at 5:08 PM, N.R.Joshi \<[gira...@juno.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> > Oct 6, 2015 >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Respected Scholars, Namaskar! >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > To the best of my knowledge Mlecchas were located on the west of > Aryas, somewhere on the ancient border landof modern day Pakistan > and Afghanistan. They were related to Aryas. If the word Dravidian > meant south Indian languages, then it has nothing to do with Mleccha > language. I may be corrected if my understanding is faulty. Thanks. > N.R.Joshi  
>   
> ---------- Original Message ----------  
> From: Sivasenani Nori \<[sivas...@gmail.com]()\>  
> To: भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत् \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
> Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} reference to the classification of > languages in sanskrit literature  
> Date: Tue, 6 Oct 2015 00:20:58 +0530  
>   
> > 
> > 
> > 2015-10-05 23:19 GMT+05:30 Veeranarayana Pandurangi > \<[veer...@gmail.com]()\>: >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > dear all > > > > 
> > > > I am looking for the reference to the classification of languages in > > sanskrit literature. whether the dravidian languages were known as a > > different group or not. etc. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >  style="font-family:'times new roman',serif"> >
> The earliest reference to a Dravidian language in Sanskrit literature > that I know is in the MlecchaprasiddhapraamaaNyaadhikaraNam > (consisting of one soota 1.3.10) in Tantravartikam by Kumarila, where > he refers to a few Dravidian words. I am attaching the adhikaraNam for > your ready reference. Please see the prose part in the third page. >
> 
> >  style="font-family:'times new roman',serif"> >
> 
> > 
> >  style="font-family:'times new roman',serif"> >
> Regards >
> 
> >  style="font-family:'times new roman',serif"> >
> N. Siva Senani >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > --  
> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
> ---  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>. >
>   
>   
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
> [**Meet the Graviteers: Ezekiel Victor**  
> http://www.gravity.com/blog/meet-the-graviteers-ezekiel-victor/  
> ](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/561438915a3d438914abest02vuc) >
> 
> > --  
> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
> ---  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.  
> > 

  
  



--  

Madhav M. Deshpande  
Professor of Sanskrit and Linguistics  
Department of Asian Languages and Cultures  
202 South Thayer Street, Suite 6111  
The University of Michigan  
Ann Arbor, MI 48104-1608, USA



--  
निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
---  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**Meet the Graviteers: Ezekiel Victor**  
http://www.gravity.com/blog/meet-the-graviteers-ezekiel-victor/  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/5618287277a1128722110st03vuc)

