+++
title = "000 Dr.BVK Sastry"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry	2009-09-15, 21:15:22 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/7LA27GYKgQk)]]



Namaste  
  
1. As I keep watching several posts in this forum, the old and  
basic questions that have been raised much earlier in this forum by me  
seems to be having more relevance for a refocuss. The questions  
are : 'What is Samskrutham? Why Study Samskrutham? Are we studying  
Samskrutham for any one of the benefits identified/listed by Panini/  
Patanali? Are we studying the Samskrutham resoruces in the same  
'lingua-logic' which has been used in penning them? All those  
projects deliberating on Samskrutham langauge labs/ language  
technology / Mega transaltion projects /NLP et al - are they looking  
at Sanskrit as one of the contenders amongst the 6000 or so human  
langauges for a purposive modelling in the profiled industry of IT  
for algorithms and consequent business profits Or is it going to help  
in any way a better understanding of the Samskrutham Heritage -  
spiritual or literary or Ritual/prayers ?  
  
2. In my opinion and considered assessment, the current situation  
is like a team of 'priests and doctors' making efforts to address the  
'health of a patient in serious coma state for more than three hundred  
years'. Each physician-analyst is addressing one aspect, to find  
reasons to restore the health of the target patient and in the  
process, they find 'life symptoms' in one or the other part of the  
'body of Samskrutham heritage'. So the 'sanskrit-corpus' is not  
totally discorded !  
  
  
3. I am making a select summary of the debated issues in the posts  
just for a convenient summing up: Issues in the deabte relate to : a)  
Mega project of Sanskrit Translation, Language Lab, b ) Addressing the  
prime question - What is Sanskrit (=Samskrutham) - A historical  
languge of a community-land - faith link, a grammar rule created  
artificial expression like a mathematical formula, mystic entity c)  
Why study Sanskrit today - Here in India or beyond in US ? Why  
speciifc faith comunities should study it OR any one out side of this  
faith community bestow any attnetion on this ? Who should fund and  
support this effort ? How to investigate the claims like \< People  
with speech disabilities, by pronouncing the Sanskrit alphabet in a  
systematic way, will be cured of such difficulties. Scholars at  
Aurobindo Ashram, Pondichery are working with the project, I believe.  
\> d ) What should be the model of introduction- progress in the study  
of Sanskrit - Is it the Samskrutha Bharati approach, Harward model,  
English language based (Three langauge formula) approach as adapted in  
Indian schools), Gurukula model , Grammar based model, IE- Classical  
langauges modelled study, Second/ Third/fourth/ foreign langauge model  
of teaching - Which eventually ends up with the question: How to  
measure the competency -excellence level of Sanskrit / Who has the  
authority to validate the langauge excellence ? e ) What are the  
consequences of 'practical working' with Sanskrit documents with a  
'less than desired level of excellence in Samskrutham (Bhashaa and  
Chandas = Classical and Vedic Sanskrit) ? What is the dependability of  
translation of a given work of Sanskrit in Indic langauges and Indo-  
european langauges / English using different methodologies and  
dictionary resoruces ??!!  
  
4. While I dont want to come in the way of exchange of cyber bits by  
scholars in the above forum, I intend to address specific parts of  
solution in this regard, to facilitate the 'Samskrutham Education in  
the Digital media -Online model', for which one of the criitcal steps  
is 'Creation of Authentic Langauge Learning Tools in the native  
devanagari script' . In order to address this, I have specific  
projects in mind, for supporting which i invite the interested  
scholars/ institutions to contact me off the list on this e- mail. The  
speciifc projects are:  
  
4a ) (For those who are content savvy ) A Review of the Monier  
Williams Dictionary, specifically for the 'L-cateogory words which  
constitute more than 15% of the dictionary entries of about 1.5 lakh  
words ( L- category word in MW dictionary means a word for which the  
provided meaning is non-traditional and is at the discretion of the  
lexicographer. This may or may not meet the understanding in the  
traditional schools). This upgrade work, due for more than 150 years  
is of critical importance. Please remeber that in todays Sanskrit  
learning model, beyond paying lip sympathy to amarakosha, not many go  
to 'route memory model of recollection of the meaning line of a given  
word ! ' or to the 'route memory of the shabda roopa's /Dhatu patha.  
  
4b ) (For those who are technically savvy) Formulation of the  
Standards of the Samskrutham Varnas ( with Svaras) per Pratishakhya  
and Shiksha Shastra source works and Voice traditions, on the Non-  
roman Script /Indic langauge initiative model ( I am up to date on the  
information of what has been palced in the Vedic unicode and CDAC  
provided documents. I am of the opinion that much more foundational  
work needs to be done in this regard and hence this call. There was a  
workshop in this regard at Mysore in 2007 and some of the members of  
this forum who participated know of the key issues that need to be  
addressed. We can talk of the high profile high tech jargons of  
sanskrit for computers in this project.).  
  
Unless one is willing to invest native resoruces and effort in this  
research, in a serious manner , rest of the discussions would remain a  
'wish list for restoring the health of the patient in the coma' noted  
as above. One can keep debating for three hundred more years with no  
tangible outcome.  
  
In short, If Sanskrit is the 'pride' of India, then Indian resoruces  
should be working to build the needful work in this regard.  
  
Please contact me off the list for any more clarifications on these  
points.  
  
Regards  
BVK Sastry  
(At Bangalore currently)  
  
  
  
  
  
  

