+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-10-21, 16:00:06 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/MN4U5NrifrE)]]



**From:** [Hindu Samhati Media]( "hindusamhati@gmail.com")

**Sent:** Tuesday, October 19, 2010 8:43 AM

**To:**

**Subject:** \[FHRS_USA\] Mograhat Proves Hindus Can Also Triumph.

  

### [Mograhat Proves Hindus Can Also Triumph.](http://southbengalherald.blogspot.com/2010/10/mograhat-proves-hindus-can-also-triumph.html)

**\* One…….two……….three – create many Mograhat \***

  

There is a calculated myth across the globe (and more among the adversaries of Dharma) that pluralist Hindus can’t fight at all and succumb to the first shot of every onslaught. As already said this is nothing else save for a long drawn out parable and the time has come to break the same altogether and prove Hindus can also struggle for the sake of Dharma. Well, there is

nothing to lose hope as village of Dakshin Marjada under Mograhat P.S. in South 24 Parganas district has shown the way.

  

**What happened in 2009?**

  

Sovarani Atheletic Club and a Muslim graveyard is side by side. Lat year, Muslims created tried to obstruct the Hindu festival of Durga Puja. The Hindus resisted. This year, Muslims claimed that they have obtained some court judgement in their favour to stop the Puja. Hence they tried to obstruct the Puja.

  

**How did the new saga begin?**

  

Well, the main perpetrators in the entireincident have been the responsible (?) police personnel in Mograhat P.S. who were quick enough to ask the local 'Dakshin Marjada Sovarani Atheletic Club" to bring their 26 year old Durgapuja to a close in the wake of Ayodhya verdict. The police proved to be proficient to realize celebration of the biggest festival of Bengali Hindus would be another assault on the Muslims wounded by the verdict. Well, they were not alone; the local Trinamool Congress dominated Panchayat (under the aegis of Muslims completely) proved

to be the foremost player behind this sudden diktat.

  

However, something did go wrong. Hindus, instead of getting demoralized, did gear up and pledged to go on with the Puja no matter what. But what was most striking, an influential member of the local Trinamool Congress, Rathin Kumar Das (Buroda) requested local Hindus not to include Hindu Samhati in the entire episode. However, he remained futile to ask Muslims to maintain the same coveted tranquility, witnessed to prepare themselves with all kinds

of dreaded arms and ammunitions. The local mosque became the meeting point apart from becoming the greatest storehouse of munition. Even Muslims from Mallickpur, Park Circus in Kolkata, Shankarpur, Gazir Hat, Mograhat, Sangrampur, Netra, Bajeberia and other places in neighborhood were included in the local militia to foment worst attacks on the local Hindus.

  

On Saturday evening Muslims were found to regroup themselves in mosque close at hand, an incident enough to alarm the Hindus, who started to prepare themselves too. Even the prearranged BDO meeting to settle the issue of Puja was hindered by Muslims under leadership of Khalil Sheikh and Jalil Sheikh. Khalil Sheikh was found to state that they have the power to show! The situation and its mounting intensity alerted the local administration, compelled to deploy Black Cat to vacate the land of Muslims.

  

Nevertheless, in spite of all troubles created by Muslim hoodlums and owing to resolve of Hindus in particular, the said meeting went on. In the meeting Maulanas were found to say that they were ready to cooperate with Hindus in the celebration of Puja or else they feared energized Hindus, as a result, might create havoc. All these did take place even if Khalil did remain

adamant.

  

What is the end result then? As far as the decision of local administration, Hindus will go on with the Puja. Triumphant Hindu community brought out procession to celebrate the victory.

  

**Mograhat proves Hindus can also triumph.**

  
--  

**Hindu Samhati Media  
[me...@hindusamhati.com]()**

**[www.hindusamhati.org](http://www.hindusamhati.org/)**

