+++
title = "000 vaidikagramanirman"

+++
[[vaidikagramanirman	2009-04-05, 23:28:52 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/kWXkF8ffgc8)]]



[http://www.columbia.edu/itc/mealac/pritchett/00generallinks/macaulay/txt_letters\\](http://www.columbia.edu/itc/mealac/pritchett/00generallinks/macaulay/txt_letters%5C)  
\_later.html  
  
To John Tytler, 28 January 1835  
  
Dear Sir,  
  
....I deny that it is necessary to teach absurdities either to a man  
or to a  
native for the purpose of afterwards refuting those absurdities. It is  
very well  
for a few studious men to pass their lives in tracing the history of  
opinions.  
But the great mass of students have not a life to give to such  
researches. If  
they are taught errors while their education is going on, they will  
never learn  
truth afterwards. Nor is it necessary to the rational belief of truth  
that men  
should be acquainted with all the forms which error has taken. The  
same  
reasoning which establishes truth does ipso facto refute all possible  
errors  
which are opposed to that truth. If I prove that the earth is a  
sphere, I prove  
at the same time that it is not a cute, a cylinder, or a cone; --nor  
is it  
necessary for me to go through all possible figures one after another,  
and to  
direct a separate argument against each....  
  
I deny that we wish to conceal both sides of any scientific question  
from our  
students. But life is too short to study everything. You cannot teach  
your  
pupils truth and all the various forms of error in the short time  
which is  
allotted to education. I cannot see the wisdom of making a boy, for  
example, a  
great astrologer, of keeping him several years employed in casting  
nativities--  
and then telling him that the whole of the Science which he has  
painfully  
mastered is good for nothing. I think myself entitled to laugh at  
astrology  
though I do not know its very rudiments-- to laugh at alchemy though I  
have no  
knowledge of it but what I have picked up from Ben Jonson. Would you  
teach your  
children astrology?....  
  
You say that there is some truth in the Oriental systems. So there is  
in the  
Systems held by the rudest and most barbarous tribes of Caffraria and  
New  
Holland. The question is why we are to teach any falsehood at all. You  
say it is  
necessary in order to make the truth palatable to the Natives. I am  
not  
convinced of this. I know that your Sanscrit and Arabic Books do not  
sell. I  
know that the English books of the School book Society do well. I know  
that you  
cannot find a single person at your Colleges who will learn Sanscrit  
and Arabic  
without being paid for it. I know that the Students who learn English  
are  
willing to pay. I believe therefore that the native population if left  
to itself  
would prefer our mode of education to yours. At all events the onus  
probandi  
\[=burden of proof\] lies upon you....  
  
To Lord William Bentinck, 27 February 1835  
Dear Lord William,  
  
I approve most highly of what you propose. The number of votes given  
to natives  
in our Committee \[=the Committee of Public Instruction\] ought, I  
think, to be  
limited to two: and this is done in the best way by allowing the  
managers of the  
Hindoo College to name two delegates. The Government in this manner  
pays a high  
compliment to the natives as a body, and yet escapes from the  
individious task  
of selecting individuals.  
  
The only objection that strikes me is this. The Hindoo College admits  
no  
Mahometan students. None of the Directors are Mahometans. The high  
compliment  
paid to this institution is therefore a compliment paid to the Hindoos  
at the  
expense of the Mussulmans. And I see no way of remedying this  
inconvenience. For  
there is no Mahometan institution which bears the smallest resemblance  
to the  
Hindoo College.  
  
Would you permit me therefore to suggest that, as your minute will  
probably be  
published, it might be as well to insert some expressions which might  
hold out  
to the Mussulmans a hope that, if they will, like the Hindoos, exert  
themselves  
in the cause of education, they will, like the Hindoos, be admitted  
into the  
education Committee?....  
  
  
To Zachary Macaulay, 12 October 1836  
My dear Father,  
  
....In a few months, I hope indeed in a few weeks, we shall send up  
the penal  
code to government. We have got rid of the punishment of death except  
in cases  
of aggravated treason and wilful murder. We shall also get rid  
indirectly of  
everything that can properly be called slavery in India. There will  
remain civil  
claims on particular people for particular services, which claims may  
be  
enforced by civil action. But no person will be entitled, on the plea  
of being  
the master of another, to do anything to that other which it would be  
an offence  
to do to a freeman.  
  
Our English schools are flourishing wonderfully. We find it difficult,  
indeed at  
some places impossible, to provide instruction for all who want it. At  
the  
single town of Hoogley fourteen hundred boys are learning English. The  
effect of  
this education on the Hindoos is prodigious. No Hindoo who has  
received an  
English education ever continues to be sincerely attached to his  
religion. Some  
continue to profess it as a matter of policy. But many profess  
themselves pure  
Deists, and some embrace Christianity. The case with Mahometans is  
very  
different. The best-educated Mahometan often continues to be a  
Mahometan still.  
The reason is plain. The Hindoo religion is so extravagantly absurd  
that it is  
impossible to teach a boy astronomy, geography, natural history,  
without  
completely destroying the hold which that religion has on his mind.  
But the  
Mahometan religion belongs to a better family. It has very much in  
common with  
Christianity; and even where it is most absurd, it is reasonable when  
compared  
with Hindooism. It is my firm belief that, if our plans of education  
are  
followed up, there will not be a single idolater among the respectable  
classes  
in Bengal thirty years hence. And this will be effected without any  
efforts to  
proselytise, without the smallest interference with religious liberty,  
merely by  
the natural operation of knowledge and reglection. I heartily rejoice  
in this  
prospect....  
  

