+++
title = "001 vaidikagramanirman"

+++
[[vaidikagramanirman	2009-04-07, 10:09:46 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/kWXkF8ffgc8)]]



  
namaste  
  
Copyright prakrutipremi 2009  
.....................  
  
There are many that try to paint rosy pictures and long dead British  
India and Macauley. History demands many times the impossible from its  
thinking students.Tolerant view, benign views, understanding views,  
"Mechanical analysis" are asked, nay prescribed for torture of the  
child student.  
  
The child in student has to suppress the scream in the freshly being  
built jail for him. How much he yearns to yell like the child looking  
at the naked emperor - "But mommy - He IS NAKED". This is unjust and  
ridiculous - these guys ARE stupid. All the guys - both the MacDead  
whatever and MacAlive gurus asking me to see and analyze the brand of  
shoes that kicked my forefather's teeth in. They have taken away my  
joy in going to MacDonalds.  
  
=====  
  
Macauley wrote:  
  
The internal government of Bengal the English rulers delegated to a  
great native minister, who was stationed at Moorshedabad. All military  
affairs, and with the exception of what pertains to mere ceremonial  
all  
foreign affairs, were withdrawn from his control; but the other  
departments of the administration were entirely confided to him. His  
own  
stipend amounted to near a hundred thousand pounds sterling a year.  
The  
personal allowance of the Nabob, amounting to more than three hundred  
thousand pounds a year, passed through the minister's hands, and was,  
to  
a great extent, at his disposal. The collection of the revenue, the  
administration of justice, the maintenance of order, were left to this  
high functionary; and for the exercise of his immense power he was  
responsible to none but the British masters of the country.  
  
A situation so important, lucrative, and splendid was naturally an  
object of ambition to the ablest and most powerful natives. Clive had  
found it difficult to decide between conflicting pretensions. Two  
candidates stood out prominently from the crowd, each of them the  
representative of a race and of a religion.  
  
One of these was Mahommed Reza Khan, a Mussulman of Persian  
extraction,  
able, active, religious after the fashion of his people, and highly  
esteemed by them. In England he might perhaps have been regarded as a  
corrupt and greedy politician. But, tried by the lower standard of  
Indian morality, he might be considered as a man of integrity and  
honor.  
  
His competitor was a Hindoo Brahmin whose name has, by a terrible and  
melancholy event, been inseparably associated with that of Warren  
Hastings, the Maharajah Nuncomar. This man had played an important  
part  
in all the revolutions which, since the time of Surajah Dowlah, had  
taken place in Bengal. To the consideration which in that country  
belongs to high and pure caste, he added the weight which is derived  
from wealth, talents, and experience. Of his moral character it is  
difficult to give a notion to those who are acquainted with human  
nature only as it appears in our island. What the Italian is to the  
Englishman, what the Hindoo is to the Italian, what the Bengalee is to  
other Hindoos, that was Nuncomar to other Bengalese. The physical  
organization of the Bengalee is feeble even to effeminacy. He lives in  
a  
constant vapor bath. His pursuits are sedentary, his limbs delicate,  
his  
movements languid. During many ages he has been trampled upon by men  
of  
bolder and more hardy breeds. Courage, independence, veracity, are  
qualities to which his constitution and his situation are equally  
unfavorable. His mind bears a singular analogy to his body. It is weak  
even to helplessness, for purposes of manly resistance; but its  
suppleness and its tact move the children of sterner climates to  
admiration not unmingled with contempt. All those arts which are the  
natural defence of the weak are more familiar to this subtle race than  
to the Ionian of the time of Juvenal, or to the Jew of the dark ages.  
What the horns are to the buffalo, what the paw is to the tiger, what  
the sting is to the bee, what beauty, according to the old Greek song,  
is to woman, deceit is to the Bengalee. Large promises, smooth  
excuses,  
elaborate tissues of circumstantial falsehood, chicanery, perjury,  
forgery, are the weapons, offensive and defensive, of the people of  
the  
Lower Ganges. All those millions do not furnish one sepoy to the  
armies  
of the Company. But as usurers, as money-changers, as sharp legal  
practitioners, no class of human beings can bear a comparison with  
them.  
With all his softness, the Bengalee is by no means placable in his  
enmities or prone to pity. The pertinacity with which he adheres to  
his  
purposes yields only to the immediate pressure of fear. Nor does he  
lack  
a certain kind of courage which is often wanting to his masters. To  
inevitable evils he is sometimes found to oppose a passive fortitude,  
such as the Stoics attributed to their ideal sage. A European warrior  
who rushes on a battery of cannon with a loud hurrah will sometimes  
shriek under the surgeon's knife, and fall into an agony of despair at  
the sentence of death. But the Bengalee who would see his country  
overrun, his house laid in ashes, his children murdered or dishonored,  
without having the spirit to strike one blow, has yet been known to  
endure torture with the firmness of Mucius, and to mount the scaffold  
with the steady step and even pulse of Algernon Sydney  
On Apr 5, 10:58pm, vaidikagramanirman \<[prema...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  
\> <http://www.columbia.edu/itc/mealac/pritchett/00generallinks/macaulay/.>..  

î—“

