+++
title = "003 R. N. iyengar"

+++
[[R. N. iyengar	2018-08-17, 13:34:12 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/TPpzJHDZrxw)]]



Dear Members

The question of NR Joshi ji and the response of Mishra ji are both refreshing amidst theclutter of*asmat-yus.mat*punching bouts. The word count in the Bhagavadgeeta in another post, shows that *asmat(-samskr.tam)*and *yus.mat(-samskr.tam)* are nearly (statistically) equal even as number counts. The divide exists and will continue.

Dr.Mishra, I downloaded your slides and still pondering over them as much as I can to absorb your view points. I have read your previous posts (almost all) and personally impressed by your work as being pro-actively Indic and not as a reaction to the opinion of some Indologist. I would like to read your full paper even though I am not into neurosciences. Nevertheless I am interested in speculating how Vedic ancestors might have mapped "thought signals on to acoustic signals". I have the following observations at this stage:

  

1\. you write:We are making a mathematical model to create the signal.
Which is the signal you are referring?Is this about the Tamil, Sanskrit, Hungarian word pronunciations or some thing else? Or are you referring to the time series and spectra of the consonants? Presumably you recorded these in a controlled experiment.  

  

2\. Your slide shows: Panini used the letters as production units and mapped the Vedic recitation and the common language to them. This is of course the received tradition. But, what is your take on Samavedic chant or recitation? Saamagaana uses the same Rigvedic verses but the accents (or Svaras 5 to 7 in number) are entirely different. Is there some explanation for this within the PaNinian framework?

  

3. the common languageyou are referring above is undoubtedly what was named later as Sanskrit. Your flow chart from Rasa to Dhvani is very interesting, but bifurcation (or more branching) must be possible at the Red-band of Intentionality (इच्छा,icchā). There is a legend in the BharataNaaTya shaastra, about Naarada propounding Nirgiita. Roughly speaking this is music without the limitation of language. I don't recollect the story fully. But it goes something like this. Once Devas sing a song that is liked by every one. Even the Asuras/Daityas like the tune but not the "meaning of the words" because it is abusive of them. They go to Brahma and complain. Then Naarada comes into picture and introduces music without language that is liked by all.

  

4. I wonder whether our classical music in its ultimate form of *aalapti* or *aalaapana* shows that consonants are not essential to convey meaningful thought patterns through structured sound.

  

I like to know from scholars whethertraditional grammarians (शब्दशास्त्रज्ञा:) Patanjali, Bhartr.hari etc have touched upon philosophy of music. Or is their work limited only to भाषा .  

  

with regards

RN Iyengar  

  

> 
> > 

> 
> > On Friday, August 17, 2018 at 1:49:49 AM UTC+5:30, Bijoy wrote: >
> 

> 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Friends, > > > > 
> > > > I did ask during WSC XVII if anyone wanted to check the slides. > > > > 
> > > > I sent to all who requested.
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > i did not post since the topic is theoretical and tilts to > > neuroscience. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > I am posting the slides as the PDF file. It would only make sense > > if you have followed our previous work. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > You would enjoy if you join the field of studies in speech science. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > You may write to me if you wish to pursue thesis work for advanced > > degree.
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > The principal goal of our work is to study how does a thought signal > > convert itself into an acoustic signal. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > This includes the segmentation process and the organization. We are > > utterly speculative in the paper, > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > a lot more neural analysis is being made. We are making a > > mathematical model to create the signal. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > I will send you the full paper if you would have further interest.
> > I won't post publicly. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Best regards, > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > BM
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > >   
> > 



