+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-11-02, 07:14:34 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/sZwHjgzSze8)]]



'Here science is a dialect of Kannada'

*BySharan Poovanna  
*

*01 Nov 2010 02:06:47 AM IST*

**BANGALORE: Science is considered a complicated language by the common man. But in Karnataka, science is considered a dialect of the local Kannada language. This notion would come alive when there is a realisation of efforts by second generation scientist, Prof Roddam Narasimha.

Standing tall as one of the most distinguished scientists that the state has produced, Prof Narasimha says that Karnataka and more importantly Bangalore, has been one of the leading science hubs of the country. Reflecting upon the history of science in the state, he says that the very fact that people other than Kannadigas have all found solace in the state in their pursuit of science is proof that the state has always promoted science in a big way.

**Indian Institute of Science**

"This was a reputation built over time," he said and added that Karnataka has pioneered in establishing science as a way of life. Attributing the spark of this revolution to Jamshedji Tata and the Wadiyars of Mysore, he says that it was their pursuit of research that led to the establishment of the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), as one of the premier institutes for research in the country.

"We started an extensive research university that was one of the first in the country," he said. Narasimha added that IISc was started in 1908 and exuded the pursuit of science from the early days itself. Noting that Kolkata (then Calcutta) was the only other hub for science research in the country, Narasimha said that Karnataka had produced the most distinguished names that were synonymous with science.

"CV Raman, Homi Bhabha, Satish Dhawan, Vikram Sarabhai and countless others have pursued science in Karnataka," he said. Narasimha said that even during the Second World War, the electronic communications that was developed in IISc proved helpful for the Indian defence communications and broadcasting, not just that time, but in future as well.

Speaking on nonnatives practising research in the state, he says that eminent scientists who travelled all over the world spreading their work also helped spread the spirit of Karnataka's excellence in science. He pointed out that Bhabha set up the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research with the intent of having a specialised institute for research.

**Distinguishing IT, engineering and science**

Making a clear distinction between information technology, engineering and science, he says that Bangalore was known as the science capital long, before it was known for its IT exploits.

"The hospitable nature of the city and the acceptance of outsiders attracted industries to our city," Narasimha said and added that the climate and peaceful nature of the surroundings also played an important part.

Pointing out that public private partnership (PPP) was not a new concept, he said that IISc was one of the first such ventures that set the precedent for future endeavours of the governments. He said that he was also one of the first customers of a person producing microprocessors in Bangalore in the 1970s, a thing that no one had heard of at that time.

**Pioneering efforts of Sir MV**

He said that engineering and the pursuit of technology started with Sir M Visvesvaraya and his efforts. Narasimha said that Sir MV took the ability of science to the masses with his creations. He also pointed out that some of the most eminent scientists were deeply rooted in culture. "It is very important according to me to ensure that people understand the significance of the local language to understand age-old phenomena," he said.

He said that his father R Lakshminarasimha was one of the few individuals who made this attempt and that it stands testimony to the efforts of Kannada embracing science. He said that his father wrote science in Kannada which excluded the earlier notion of science being only for the English educated. "His works like the one on sound tried to teach the concept and the science behind something as simple as sound, but in Kannada," Narasimha said.

He also pointed out that some of the biggest scholarships for language were not even given in India, which had a variety of languages. He says that like his father's mantra, science should go to the masses and not make them come to science.

Narasimha points out that Karnataka has contributed extensively to science. But his worry is that the percentage of Kannadigas pursuing science is worrisome. There was huge potential, but it had to be realised, he added.

  

<http://expressbuzz.com/edition/print.aspx?artid=219691>

