+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-11-12, 16:55:50 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/Mf00fRRk-lw)]]



  

<http://www.financialexpress.com/news/oldest-vedic-ritual-athirathram-to-be-held-after-35-years/709764/>#

  
**Oldest Vedic ritual 'Athirathram' to be held after 35 years**  
Agencies  
Posted online: 2010-11-11 15:38:46+05:30  

**Kochi**'Athirathram' considered as the oldest vedic ritual in the world, will be held at Panjal, a sleepy village in Kerala's thrissur district, in April next year, after a 35 year gap.

Considered the ultimate invocation of vedic scriptures for universal harmony, the 2011 'Athirathram', aims to promote universal harmony, peace, prosperity and spirtitual enlightment, and will be held from April 4-15 at the vicinity of Panjal Lakshmi Narayana temple, Dr Shivakaran Namboodiripad, P Neelakantan and Advocate K Krishnakumar, all trustees of the Ottapalam based Varthathe Trust, the organisers, told reporters here today.

Panjal was the venue of the 'Athirathram' held in 1975 under the leadership of the US Harvard and Berkeley Universities and Finland's Helsinki University. The event had made global headlines for its message of peace, universal oneness and solidarity.

Puthillathu Ramanujan Somayajippadu will be 'Yajamanan' and Dhanyapathanadi as 'Yajamanapatni'.

Krishnakumar said the preparations for the ritual are on in full swing. 'Yajurveda' and 'Samaveda' practices that precede the Athirathram' have begun at the Panjal Thotttathil Mana and Kavupra Maarath Mana. Preparation for the ritual began after obtaining the customary consent from Shukapuram temple.

The choice of Panjal as the venue for Athirathram is also in line with geographic and vaasthu principles. The 'yagashala' (where the ceremonies will be performed) is positioned to imbibe the energy of the sun, Dr Shivakaran said.

The expenses are estimated to touch rs one crore and the organisers are expecting at elast 15,000 people to witness the rituals daily.

The rituals will begin every day with the vedic chantings and homas. On the last four days, the rituals would be held throughout the day and night without any break.

People of all relgious can particiapte in the Athirathram.

The organisers are also planning to approach the scientific community to study the various effects of the ritual on the atmosphere and the surroundings.

