+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2011-11-11, 16:17:42 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/Q7s9nXm2Oc8)]]



<http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.com/2011/11/these-panini-girls-can-cross-swords.html>

  

--------- Forwarded message ----------  
From: **Bal Ram Singh** \<[bsi...@umassd.edu]()\>  
Date: Fri, Nov 11, 2011 at 4:10 PM  
Subject: These Panini girls can cross swords with anyone  
To: Bal Ram Singh \<[bsi...@umassd.edu]()\>  
  
  

Dear Friends,



I want to attest to this report (below), as I have visited twice this Gurukul, and School Acharya along with five girls performed marriage ceremony of my nephew in 2010.



Although I did not have time to see their archery or other warfare practice, I did have opportunity to take a tour of their facility, given by two of their students. They were very calm, composed, and confident in their description of the school and its operations. I remember one of the girls questioned a priest very strongly citing Vedas while he was also performing a separate part of the marriage ritual for my nephews marriage.



This school represents a fantastic example of India’s traditional education system.



Bal Ram



Bal Ram Singh, Ph.D.  
Director, Center for Indic Studies  
University of Massachusetts Dartmouth  
285 Old Westport Road  
Dartmouth, MA 02747  
  
Phone: [508-999-8588](tel:508-999-8588)  
Fax: [508-999-8451](tel:508-999-8451)  
Email: [bsi...@umassd.edu]()  
  
Internet address: [http://www.umassd.edu/indic](http://www.umassd.edu/indic)  
  
Confidentiality Notice: The information that is transmitted in this message may contain confidential or proprietary material. It is intended only for the person or entity to whom it is addressed. If you have received this message in error, please contact the sender immediately and remove it from your and any other computer. Thank you.

These Panini girls can cross swords with anyone  
Author: Swati Chandra  
Publication: The Times of India  
Date: November 10, 2011  
URL:  
<http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/varanasi/These-Panini-girls-can-cross-swords-with-anyone/articleshow/10676985.cms>  
  
Words of wisdom and Vedas on their lips; swords, javeline, arrows and  
bows in hand, girls of Panini Kanya Mahavidyala, Varanasi, are not only  
challenging the 5,000-year-old laws of Manusmriti (that women cannot  
perform religious rites, chant hymns and read Vedas), but are also  
showcasing perfect example of self defence to the contemporary world.  
The 40-year-old 'Gurukul only' for girls has been imparting knowledge in  
Sanskrit, Astyadhyayi, Vedas, vedic hymns, Science, Indian philosophy  
and karmakands. At the same time, ample training in self defecnce and  
warfare is given to the girls in the residential school based on ancient  
methods of teaching.  
  
Archery, swords, daggers, javeline, lathi, horse riding girls of this  
Gurukul have kept alive the ancient methods of war games and at the same  
time are overshadowing modern world with their self defence skills that  
also includes karate and martial arts.  
  
Dharmavati Arya, a student, has won accolades in the field of archery.  
Her calm nature and depth of knowledge in her eyes do not give even a  
clue that this young girl has mastered archery at national level. She  
was recently invited by Tata Archery Academy, Jamshedpur, for advanced  
training in the sport at international level. "I can hit the object with  
my arrow by looking at the object in the mirror (this act was practiced  
by Arjun of Mahabharat)," says 22-year-old Dharmavati.  
  
"By the time girls reach 18-20 years, they know all the warfares. As  
the Gurukul is based on Agra Shishya Shiksha Pranali (seniors teaching  
juniors), they pass on the knowlegde to the little girls and in this way  
we revise our art," says Jyoti Arya, a student of Acharya (Post  
Graduation) who has also crossed many 'swords' with her contemporaries  
from other other 'gurukuls' of the country. Little girls, Akriti (13)  
and Kasturi (14) have mastered two handed swords and knives while some  
of them have mastered the art of art of archery performing yogasans.  
They can also offer flower garlands to guests with a click from their  
bow and arrow and can produce dance drama with the sounds of their  
swords.  
  
According to Jyoti, apart from applying the art as self defence, girls  
of the Gurukul have been participating in various warfares that are held  
in the country during special occasions. Rani Laksmi Bai, being the idle  
of for these girls, holds special importance and they perform regulary  
at Jhansi every year when during the celebration of the birthday of the  
brave queen.  
  
Acharya Dr Priti Vimarshini, teacher of warfares who herself studied in  
the same Gurukul, says: "There are several tales of self defence.  
Madhuri Arya, a student of the Gurukul, jumped off from a running train  
chasing a thief and came back safely. Similarly Dharmvati Arya has  
solved many cases of eve teasing on roads."  
  
"Girls here do not panic while walking alone on roads and when trapped  
in problematic situations. Instead, they fight hard and emerge  
victorious.I believe it is very important to have these skills in this  
times when we do not know who might turn out to be our enemy," added  
Priti.  
  
At present, around 80 girls are residing at the Gurukul. Out of them,  
60 know the art of self defence and warfares and they practice it daily  
on the premises of the Gurukul in the evening. The minimum age to enter  
the ancient system of education is nine years. However care is taken  
with their age groups and matching war sports. Eyebrows were raised on  
the methods of the Gurukul as according to Manusmriti, law code of  
Hindus, women and Shudras (dalits) were not supposed to attain priest  
hood and learn Vedas. Moreover the Gurukul follows on Vedic system  
instead of the caste system. Girls from different regions of the country  
having different caste, including dalits, and some special guests from  
foreign lands study here.  
  
In his message, Swami Avimukateshwaranand Saraswati, the desciple of  
Shankaracharya Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati, appreciated the Gurukul and  
the Panini temple describing it as one of its kind which would attract  
others towards the Indian culture.  
  
A local resident Anand Kesari says: "We invite girls of Panini Kanya  
Mahavidyalaya during our religious functions to perform Vedic mantras  
every year. The way they perform rituals is highly appreciating and  
accepted by all."  
  
"The Vedic methods of these girls is very effective," says Rahul  
Srivastava, a resident of Pandeypur. According to him, the 'karmakand'  
(all 16 sanskars) performed by these girls at various homes of city is  
so very methodological that his family always invites these girls for  
offer religious rites at different occasions.  
  
According to Acharya Priti, the girls were also invited by chief  
minister of New Delhi to enchant Vedic mantras at a programme organised  
by the Delhi government.

\_\_.\_,\_.\_\_\_

--  

Kalyanaraman

  

> 
> > 
> > Member, Action Committee Against Corruption in India (ACACI) >
> 
> > 

  

  

