+++
title = "001 Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)	2015-12-24, 19:51:59 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/dkEgju0_aTY)]]



Namaste Joshi ji



Thanks for asking the question on this word in Samskrutham.



Dakshinaa is used in the sense of a professional fees paid to the Vedic Ritual professional (Acharya /Ritivik). The usage is like ‘kanya-daanam :: Vara-Dakshinaa’. 



Pradakshinaa is used as ‘ going round an identified center, clockwise,
the God in the altar (Garbha gruha) in this case; Or around the Spine as the axis (atma-pradakshinaa); or earth going round the Sun (paribhramana). The words are not connected in meaning or purpose, though similar sounding parts are present. The usage is like ‘ Namaskaara -Pradakshinaa’.



Professor Korada can you fill in with more technicalities.



‘dakshinaa’- is a vedic word. It is ‘ a professional fees’ that needs to accompany ‘Daanam’- Charity, Ritual which is purifying. Dakshinaa is an integral part of professional services of yajna.

The usage is like ‘kanya-daanam :: Vara-Dakshinaa’. The Parent give the daughter in marriage. Focus is ‘ giving (Daanam)’. It is not transfer or rejection or sale. It is a part of ‘Vivaha’ as a ‘Samskara’- purifying sanctifying Vedic rite of passage which makes a ‘ unmarried bride’ to become a ‘Patnee’ – a status with which she can claim rightful partnership in a Yajna. This is a far deeper background for marriage in Vedic tradition. The ‘Vara::: Groom has to be paid a ‘Fees’ Dakshinaa to’ receive the ‘Daanam’ in a respectful, responsible way and maintain it as a ‘Trust deposit’ and use it for the intended purpose. This sets the relation of ritual and sacred beyond bed-partnership and purse sharing between Husband and wife. The act of ‘ marriage’ transforms the ‘ unmarried groom’ to the status of a ‘ Gruhastha : Household with the privileges, status and responsibilities that go with it. The ‘Dakshinaa’ is for this purpose.



Out of the eight types of marriage, ‘dakshinaa’ is rightfully used in ‘Brahma and Arsha’ types of marriage. In other six forms of marriage, it is more on sexuality, other fallout relations of marriage as a family and political convenience ( called extended social family= bandhutaa ). So there is no issue of Dakshinaa in other formats of marriage. The concept of ‘ brides money (Mehar in Islam ; Streedhan in Hindu law)’
more or less falls out side the scope of Dakshinaa. The concept of Dowry is some where fitted forcefully under this as a social convenience and money transaction issue. 



In the context of yajna, dakshinaa is the professional fees paid to the ‘Acharya /Ritivik’ for conducting the proceeds of the yajna. An analogy may help to understand this. The Individual earns and spends. The Accounting is done by an accountant. The Tax laws say how much of tax is allowed and to be paid to state, along with a format for tax return. The activity of earning and spending which is individuals profession is like yajna. The format of yajna, the detailing is like the Tax laws and the form for return. The Ritivik/Acharya is like the Accountant and consultant. The Tax dues are different from the Accountants service charges. Dakshinaa is the Accountants service charge, a professional charge.



On the same issue, Guru-Dakshinaa is the fees paid to the Master for the ‘Sacredness of the Education’, where ‘Vidyaa (Education process) is seen as ‘ Vidyaa-daanam’. This falls outside the ambit of ‘ Course fees’ (for which there is no relevant word in Samskrutham ) in which context, Education is a ‘Trade – in- commodity of stock’- The way current academia and education system functions; especially the professional education. !



In traditional model, ‘Guru-dakshinaa’ is to clear the ‘sacred debt (Rina) of Acharya (Rishi-Rina). This is one of the three sacred debts which every human must clear – For the parents, the Teachers and the Gods. Contrary, the Globalization and Professionalization of education has made every student to have an education award on one hand and ‘ education loan –award’ on other hand. Therefore, education of today is more oriented towards employment-Earning and Social engagement as a profession . This is different from the traditional model of ‘Vidyaa’ for ‘Freedom (vimukti).

Surely Times have changed .





Regards

BVK Sastry



--  
निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
---  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
Visit this group at <https://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

