+++
title = "000 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2015-02-07, 04:34:05 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/F-bHrxDQ0iQ)]]



Feb 6, 2015

DEar Prof M.Deshpande, Thanks for information on chronology of the ancient acharyas.

Eight Achāryas of Pūrvamīmāṁsā prior to Jaimini sūtras. Jaimini refers to them in his work. Their names---- (1) Bādarāyaņa, (2)Bādari, (3) Ātreya, (4) Aitiśāyana, (5)Kārşaņajini,(6)Iavukāyana,(7) Kāmukāyana, (8)Aśmarathya (9) ālekhana, and (10) Jaimini. Scanned and saved.



Panini refers to 10 grammarians before him. Brihadaranyaka Upanisad has list of 60 teachers. Conservatively this leads us at least 900 to 1000 BC. This is the time of King Soloman in the ancient Middle-east. Soloman had trade relations with south India. Tamil words are in Old Testament. Geographical horizon of Vedas was from Eastern Afghanistan to Ganga river in the east. I am trying to create some picture in my mind. Thanks. N.R.Joshi



  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: Madhav Deshpande \<[mmd...@umich.edu]()\>  
To: "[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()" \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Chronological order  
Date: Thu, 5 Feb 2015 06:44:09 +0530  
  

Dear Dr. Joshi,



  The chronological order of Yāska and Pāṇini is highly contested in the research literature, but they must be very close to each other, though belonging to different śāstras. Pāṇini quotes Śaunaka, Śākalya, Śākaṭāyana, and Gārgya. So they can be treated as being pre-Pāṇinian.
Yāska also quotes Śākaṭāyana and Gārgya. Vyāḍi appears to be between Pāṇini and Kātyāyana. Upavarṣa is quoted by Śabara, but not by any of the earlier authors, and could be relatively later. The relative chronology of Jaimini is unclear, as Jaimini is not quoted by Pāṇini, Yāska or Patañjali. If I remember correctly, Patañjali knows the Mīmāṃsā of Āpiśali and Kāśakṛṭsna, but not that of Jaimini. The relationship of Jaimini and Bādarāyaṇa is also complicated, as both seem to quote each other. Their relationship has been a subject of recent debates. This is approximately what we know about the relative chronology of these early authors. For detailed discussions and differences of opinions, you can consult the comprehensive bibliography of research published by my guruji, Professor George Cardona. With best wishes,



Madhav Deshpande

(currently in Pune)

  

On Thu, Feb 5, 2015 at 3:32 AM, N.R.Joshi \<[gira...@juno.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Dated Feb 4, 2015 >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Respected scholars Namaskar! >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > May I get a littlehelp from schholars of this list please in setting > chronological order of the ancient scholars in Indian Philosophy and > Graamar? >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > . On BVP postings I come across the names Vyaadi (Sangraha) Jaimini > of Purvamimamsa Badarayan of Brahmasutra, Shaunaka of Brihat devata, > Shakalya of Pada patha, Nirukta (Yaaska), Shaakatayana, Gaargya, > Upavarsha, Panini, Katyayana, and Patanjali of Mahabhasya). >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Assuming Patanjali around 150 BC, is it possible to arrange the other > authors in a chronological order? Approximate timing is ok so that I > get some idea which author (or his work )preceded which. Right now the > picture is not clear in my mind. Thanks. N.R.Joshi >
> 
> >   
>   
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
> [**How Old Men Tighten Skin**  
> 63 Year Old Man Shares DIY Skin Tightening Method You Can Do From > Home  
> ](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/54d297518633b17514fc0st01vuc)[healthylivinglifeguide.com](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/54d297518633b17514fc0st01vuc) >
> 
> > --  
> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
> ---  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.  

  
  



--  

Madhav M. Deshpande  
Professor of Sanskrit and Linguistics  
Department of Asian Languages and Cultures  
202 South Thayer Street, Suite 6111  
The University of Michigan  
Ann Arbor, MI 48104-1608, USA



--  
निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
---  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**How Old Men Tighten Skin**  
63 Year Old Man Shares DIY Skin Tightening Method You Can Do From Home  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/54d548605b59b48600cf7st03vuc)[healthylivinglifeguide.com](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/54d548605b59b48600cf7st03vuc)

