+++
title = "004 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2015-02-11, 04:44:25 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/F-bHrxDQ0iQ)]]



Feb 10, 2015



Thanks to S. Bhattacharya and Dr. V. Sundersen for suggestions in connection with my question on chronology of the ancient aacharyas. I asked the question because starting with Patanjali as anchor(who referred to shakasand hence his time around 150 BC) we can move forward to Bhartrihari 450 AD. Shankaracarya 700 AD, Sayanacharya 1500 AD, Madhvacharya 1200-1300 AD.These are round aboutnumbers, not exact dates. I wanted to go backwardsstarting from Patanjali. Chronology helps in understanding of development of philosophical concepts through Indian history. Thanks to all who enlightened me on this issue. N.R.Joshi

  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: "N.R.Joshi" \<[gira...@juno.com]()\>  
To: [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Chrono logical order  
Date: Fri, 6 Feb 2015 23:02:38 GMT  
  

Feb 6, 2015

DEar Prof M.Deshpande, Thanks for information on chronology of the ancient acharyas.

Eight Achāryas of Pūrvamīmāṁsā prior to Jaimini sūtras. Jaimini refers to them in his work. Their names---- (1) Bādarāyaņa, (2)Bādari, (3) Ātreya, (4) Aitiśāyana, (5)Kārşaņajini,(6)Iavukāyana,(7) Kāmukāyana, (8)Aśmarathya (9) ālekhana, and (10) Jaimini. Scanned and saved.



Panini refers to 10 grammarians before him. Brihadaranyaka Upanisad has list of 60 teachers. Conservatively this leads us at least 900 to 1000 BC. This is the time of King Soloman in the ancient Middle-east. Soloman had trade relations with south India. Tamil words are in Old Testament. Geographical horizon of Vedas was from Eastern Afghanistan to Ganga river in the east. I am trying to create some picture in my mind. Thanks. N.R.Joshi



  
  
---------- .

  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**The #1 Worst Carb Ever?**  
Click to Learn #1 Carb that Kills Your Blood Sugar (Don't Eat This!)  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/54da90c3e5b5a10c32b24st02vuc)[FixYourBloodSugar.com](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/54da90c3e5b5a10c32b24st02vuc)

