+++
title = "047 Roland Steiner"

+++
[[Roland Steiner	2020-05-18, 12:33:09 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/IaQnfJP0yk8)]]



In addition to what has already been said, I will quote some relevant sections from the "Pāli Grammar" by Thomas Oberlies, which was published in 2019 (already sent to this list on 4.12.2019).  
  
\* \* \*  
  
Thomas Oberlies: Pāli Grammar. The Language of the Canonical Texts of Theravāda Buddhism. Vol. I: Phonology and Morphology. Bristol: The Pali Text Society 2019.  
  
  
**\[**p. 9\] “1. Middle Indo-Aryan and Pāli. Over time various languages evolved out of (Vedic) Sanskrit, these being collectively referred to as Middle Indo-Aryan. This can be divided into three linguistic, albeit not strictly chronological, stages -- Old, Middle and New Middle Indo-Aryan– covering a period ranging from approximately 500 B.C. to 1000 A.D. Old MIA is represented by Aśokan Prakrit, Ardha-Māgadhī and Pāli. The latter is the language of the texts of the Theravāda, an ancient school of Śravakayāna Buddhism. Related to Vedic Sanskrit on the one hand and to Ardha-Māgadhī, the language of the canon of the Śvetāmbara Jainas, the most archaic Prakrit on the other, Pāli is, together with Ardha-Māgadhī, ‘the most ancient normalization of the *koinē gangétique*’, the *lingua franca* used in the Gangetic plains during the second part of the first millennium B.C. This eastern Middle Indic had grown out of the Vedic vernacular of that region \[...\], which stood beside ‘the younger Vedic language that was in current use with the Brahmins’, its foremost use being in their theological discussions and in the instruction of pupils. The Vedic vernacular (which was by no means uniform) possessed, \[p. 10\] as far as can be seen, almost all characteristics of later ancient Middle Indo-Aryan which resulted from phonological, morphological and syntactical simplifications \[...\], disuse of uncommon words and inclusion of new words from various sources \[...\]. There was a strong influence emanating from it on Vedic Sanskrit. Against the growing influx of vernacular words and forms, which were seen as corruptions *(apaśabda),* the native Indian Sanskrit grammarians formed a bastion. Based on the spoken language of the educated Brahmins of the time, the foremost of these grammarians, Pāṇini, who came from the north-west of India, described a form of the language current around the early fourth century B.C. \[n. 2: Cf. Leumann, Merkmale des Sanskrit als Brahmanensprache und als Kunstsprache. *Asiatische Studien* 18–19 (1965) 208: “That Panini did not himself insist in his rules on a literary language, but rather took the living language of the Brahmins as his model, is shown by some of his tenets: he speaks of linguistic differences between the East (the Ganges below Patna) and the North (presumably around Taksila); many of these specifications can not be referring to literature, since the phenomena can only be observed in dialogue, in the spoken language, and yet on no account can they belong to Middle Indic”.\] After that Sanskrit evolved in a bifurcated form: On the one side was ‘classical' Sanskrit, which remained more or less fixed in the form given to it by Pāṇini; on the other was the ‘Dichtersprache' of the epics and Purāṇas, which admitted a considerable number of newly coined forms borrowed from the popular spoken language. Quite analogous to this poetic language of the Sanskrit epics, the Gangetic Middle Indic *lingua franca* seems to have been the pro-\[p. 11\]duct of a long-time use as an ancient literary language of Buddhism and Jainism, which had rejected Sanskrit as the language transmitting their texts. \[...\].”  
  
\[p. 14\] “Many Pāli words and forms -- especially with their ‘frozen' phonetics’, \[...\] -- are relics from such an earlier eastern dialect in which the ‘texts' of early Buddhism were (orally) handed down: \[...\] When Buddhism moved from the land of its origin into areas further west, it took with it the ancient texts which were composed in this eastern Middle Indic literary language which must have shared many features of the idiom Buddha, who spent most of his life in Bihar, must have spoken and have employed in his sermons \[...\]. In its new home, these texts were adapted to local western Middle Indic, which bore strong similarities to the language of the Aśokan inscriptions of Girnār. The eastern proto-canonical language \[... p. 15\] -- akin to the administrative language of the Maurya king Aśoka who likewise did not use Sanskrit for his edicts but an ancient form of Middle lndic \[...\] -- was, however, when compared with OIA, in many ways further advanced than the western dialects of its time \[...\]. As a result, the ‘texts' were transformed into a more archaic language (unless the words were taken over unaltered) as Buddhism spread westward. \[...\].”  
  
\[p. 18\] “2. Vedic Sanskrit and Pāli. It is possible to trace a steady development of Sanskrit from the Ṛgveda, the most ancient Sanskrit document, through the later Vedic texts to what is called Middle lndo-Aryan. The grammar was gradually simplified, mostly by eliminating archaic forms and by reducing the rich varieties of nominal and verbal categories. The hymns of the Ṛgveda are composed in a -- deliberately --
archaic form of Sanskrit. The then spoken language was already, it seems certain, far more developed \[...\]. From it quite a number of features intruded into the hieratic ‘high speech' of the Veda, where a considerable number of words of ‘Prakritic' origin are found. However, this state of affairs characterised not only the main dialect of the Ṛgveda. Though the language of the Ṛgvedic hymns is on the whole remarkably uniform, there are clear indications that it is, in fact, a mixture of dialects which inter-\[p. 19\]borrowed words and forms. Thus, side by side with the main dialect, which was located in the north-western part of India and in which the hymns were composed throughout \[...\], there existed a number of closely related ‘Nebenmundarten’, which had developed out of Indo-Iranian independent of the main dialect \[...} Moreover, each of these had its own linguistic innovations and archaisms. This situation is also borne out by Pāli. There are features (a.) it shares with the main dialect of the Ṛgveda and there are some (b.) in which it deviates, indeed preserving the older form; while (c.) agreeing with the popular dialects from which words penetrated into the Ṛgveda and became mixed up with its main dialect, it again (d.) differs from them \[...\].”  
  
\[p. 21\] “\[...\] Such morphonological and lexical features betray the fact that Pāli is not a direct continuation of Ṛgvedic Sanskrit; rather it descends from one of the ‘Nebenmundarten’ \[...\] of the Ṛgvedic main dialect, or at least was closely akin to it. One of the dialects on which Pāli rests seems to have borne affinities with the language of the holy texts of Zarathustrism, the Avesta \[...\].”  
  
\[p. 22\] “\[...\] 3. The Vedic vernacular(s) and Pāli. After the time of the Ṛgveda the Vedic vernacular(s) gained ground -- a process which can be traced through the Vedic texts. And from the odd popular forms they contain conclusions can be drawn concerning ‘Vedic Prakrit'. lt tums out that almost all typical characteristics of Middle Indo-Aryan (with the striking exception of the ‘law of mora', \[...\]) are seen to have arisen long before that language's first documents appear in the 3rd century B.C. \[...\]”  
  
\[p. 34\] “4. The development of Sanskrit -- The vocabulary. This same state of affairs is also exemplified by the vocabulary of the languages mentioned above. Even within Vedic Sanskrit old words were continuously dropping out of use \[...\] Some words which appear in Vedic texts turn up again, after disappearing from the later Sanskrit literary tradition \[...\], and even occur in modern Indian languages \[...\]. On the other hand, a number of old \[p. 35\] words unknown to Classical Sanskrit are preserved in MIA (see below, 5.). And finally, a number of words of Indo-European origin first appear in the various stages of MIA \[...\].  
  
5. (Post-Vedic / Classical) Sanskrit and Pāli. Pāli goes back to a Vedic vernacular situated most probably (south-)east of Arachosia near the Bolan pass \[...\]. This vernacular was linguistically more advanced than the hieratic language of the Vedic hymns. As archaisms prove, Pāli is by no means younger than (classical) Sanskrit and hence cannot be derived directly from it, which, for its part, is not directly descended from Vedic Sanskrit: \[...\].”  
  
\[p. 42\] “\[...\] 6. Aśokan Prakrit and Pāli. Side by side with the evolution of Sanskrit, the popular vernacular which co-existed with the Vedic ‘high speech' developed into what is called Middle Indo-Aryan. lts rise as a literary language coincides with the foundation of the new religions of Buddhism and Jainism in the middle of the first millennium BCE. The first accurately datable documents of this linguistically developed stage of Indo-Aryan are the inscriptions of King Aśoka, who reigned from 273/267 to 237/231 B.C. They supply a fair picture of the dialectal diversity of Middle lndic in the 3rd century \[p. 43\] B.C. Delineated by isoglosses three main varieties can be made out: eastern, western and north-western. Moreover, they permit us to locate Pāli and to check such information as the texts supply. For the Theravāda tradition has always claimed that the language spoken by the Buddha was Māgadhī -- i.e. an eastern language -- and that this language was the same as that used in its canonical texts, a language now called Pāli (a designation which originally meant ‘text' and whose use as the name of a particular language seems not to antedate the 17th century). Indeed we might expect that the language of early Buddhism was essentially an eastern one, current in the Gangetic basin in the 5th century B.C. It should therefore have the same features as eastern Aśokan Prakrit. Pāli, however, as we know it, is basically a language of western lndia, as the edicts of Aśoka \[...\] clearly show. Some of its salient features it shares with the western edicts, especially that of Ginār, e.g. \[...\].”  
  
\[p. 52\] “\[...\] Perusal of the salient features of Vedic vernacular and of Aśokan Prakrit shows, therefore, that Pāli as a MIA language differs from Sanskrit not so much in terms of its time of origin as of its dialectal base. It is a western language whose ancestor was probably situated at the border of ancient Eastern Iran, (south)east of Arachosia, Drangane and Sakastane, presumably not that far from present-day Quetta and the Bolan pass. Interspersed into it, however, are a substantial number of traits of (an) eastern language(s) \[...\].”  
  
\* \* \*  
  
Kind regards,  
Roland Steiner  

