+++
title = "007 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-05-20, 00:13:33 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/pi5X9AfhVHc)]]



Namaste



On \< The fake research journals and the fake peer-reviews is a big concern.>



Can I be helped by scholars on understanding ‘ What constitutes RESEARCH IN A SAMSKRUTH WORK’ ? distinguished from ‘Schoalrship of text ( = Paanditya) pl. And what constitutes ‘Scientific Research’ ?
This would help to set a filtering criterion for ‘ Fake’ from ‘ genuine’.



What I have been taught from my peers and teachers is : RESEARCH
concept in Samskrutham maps and covers the following: 

- ‘MEANING AMPLIFICATION ( Vyaakhyaana as Bhashya, Teekaa, Tippani, ..) . This is ‘ moola grantha vishadeekarana.’ 

- AUDIT ( Grantha / Paatha- parishkaara, Vaakya- Artha Bhashaa – bandha- chanda - shuddhi), Job for a Vaartika kaara.

- FIXATION ( Paatha dosha nivaarana / apa- paatha shuddhi)- Job of a Mahaa-Bhaashya kaara

- TEXT FIRMITY ( Kavya- nischaya) using GRAMMAR ( and Language tools ), Poetics ( Alamkaara /Roopaka / Naatya Shaastra)

- Practice clarity (Prayoga Nischaya-Shuddhi). The purpose being UTILITY APPLICATION ( Rasa –shuddhi , Rasa –siddhi, Phala Siddhi).

- Historical research ( kavi – vyakti iti-vrutta shodha) is a small segment of this study. Manuscriptology ( kruti- lipi- lekha nischaya) is subject to the Voice tradition audit ( especially Vedic).

- Refinement and Upgrade – Samanvaya – Parishkaara



What I am asking is ‘ What Constitutes RESEARCH’ in Samskruth Sampradaya ? in the frame work of ‘ Journals and Peer review’ ?



Please keep focus on this ;and avoid responding on the lines of ‘ research methodology, publications, and pedagogy ( and government benefits of research and degree ).



Some examples of what may be called ‘RESEARCH’ and qualify as
RESEARCH in Traditional guidance in Samskruth is exploration and engagement on the models of :

 Varunas guidance to Bhrugu : ‘ Tapasaa Brahma Vijijnaasasva’.

 The questions like ‘ kasminu jnaate sarvamidam vijnaatam bhavati’ ? Eka – Vijnana ( to Svetaketu)

 The hypothesis like : dukhatraya abhighaataat jijnaysaa tadabhighatake hetau’, ‘ keneshtam patati preshitam manah’.



Look forward for helpful guidance on the above pl.



Regards

BVK Sastry













  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().

  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

--   
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.

  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().

  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

--  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  

To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().



