+++
title = "007 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2012-02-09, 16:52:47 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/bvMYyTxi9lY)]]



Sripada AbhyankaraMahodaya, you areright in one thing. Going through the original is quite essential in many subjects. The commentaries often include the idiosyncracies of the commentators, inserted consciously or unconsciously, thus giving a picture quite different from the original. Dr. H.N.Bhat did not capture your zeal for the original.



Dr. Mankad of ORI, Baroda goes by amarakosha in commenting on Valmiki Ramayana and contemns valmiki that the author did not what a sea was. His remarks are assinine because Ramayana was written in Trethayuga and amarakosha in Kaliyuga, and the commentator ignores the various evidences in Ramayana, and puts forth his own ignorance to the extent of besmirching the Great Adikavi in the Critical Editions of Ramayana (ORI, Baroda). Similarly, Maharshi Dayananda Saraswathi rightlycondemns the BrahmaVaivartha Purana for stating "brahma saraswatim maithunaya jagraaha'; but he himself endorses 'incest of a daughter' as a 'Rupaka'. He, unfortunately goes by the interpretations of Yaska, which are, in this instance wrong, and thereby gives a wrong interpretation himself of vedamantras.



And we have seen in this very site how scholars cited that ushas, the daughter of Sun and impregnated by him, gave birth to a son, Divas; though Ushas, the mother and Divas, the so-called son are never seen together; as a mother and son are naturally seen. It is absurd to endorse such inanities as Rupaka, because then carrying the same further, the Son Divas 'gives birth' to Night! One scholar, who blindly believes all these inanities, questioned how to accept what I would say. No one need accept you; If you see the TRUTH.



But what I said above is certainlynot to undernine Siddhantakaumudi or Balamanorama; which definitely help a student in understanding Astadhyaayi. It is a general statement in appreciation of your spirit to stand by the original.



yours fraternally,

s.r.krishna murthy.

  
  


2012/1/31 Hnbhat B.R. \<[hnbh...@gmail.com]()\>  







