+++
title = "004 R. N. iyengar"

+++
[[R. N. iyengar	2014-10-18, 14:15:49 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/z1rCKyuNQGo)]]



Dear Scholars,

  

This is a very interesting post, as I am convinced of the following statement of Sri Bijoy Misra:



"....a fresh open-minded analytic look would help unravel  

mysteries in the Indian culture, which are now shrouded in words  

or interpreted arbitrarily..."

  

This is a timely and thought provoking statement. This could lead to controversies and difference of opinions, but मतभेद is part of Indian intellectual tradition.My two penny worth of further suggestion:

  

To start with, it would be worthwhile to prepare a list of the "mysteries of Indian Culture" from different perspectives. After this for analysis one can take up

\(a\) a statement, a legend, from the more ancient texts and then see how this has evolved (perhaps with multiple meanings) and got ingrained into current cultural practices. OR

b\) do the reverse.That is trace the evolution of a current mystery or practice or observance backwards thro' the PuraNas into the Vedic texts.

  

As far as Sanskrit texts are concerned, for the above type of analysis, one has to handle the originals and not their modern translations. Commentaries in Sanskrit and occasionally texts written in local languages prior to 17-18th Centuries would be helpful. In any case without textual criticism no analysis would be possible. I venture to propose two problems (among many others) for investigation:

  

1\) How far the Kartikeya (born to Krittikas with brother Vis'Akha) legend falling (Skanda) from the sky on the Sixth Day after a New Moon (MahAbhArata) is correlated with the modern knowledge of the Taurid group of asteroids and meteoritic showers appearing once in six months? In which parts of India the Skanda festival is observed twice in a year? Is this KArtikeya (KumAra) same as Sanat-kumAra?

  

2\) Indian classical Raaga music is said by ancient writers to have originated from SAmagAna. Is it possible to establish by careful spectral analysis of recorded Sama-chants (saptakas) the ratios of the different seven svaras used with statistical error bands?

  

  

Thanks  

  

RN Iyengar

  

>   
> On Friday, October 17, 2014 10:04:29 AM UTC+5:30, Bijoy wrote: >
> > 
> > > > 
> > > > Dear friend scholars,  
> >   
> > > > 
> > > >   
> > > > 

