+++
title = "018 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2014-10-22, 09:39:35 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/z1rCKyuNQGo)]]



Oct 21, 2014



Respected Scholars, Namaskar!



Spectral analysis of Saamagaana or of simple sanskrit words is not easy.I have spectrogramas of Sanskrit words. But to interpret them and extract information take additional efforts.One needs electrical engineer,,acoustic scholar like me and computewr guy who can take challenge. I prepared these sonogramas and gradually after several studies reached my VarNavaada. I am struggling to publish the book. I need help. NRJoshi





  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: Bijoy Misra \<[misra...@gmail.com]()\>  
To: Bharatiya Vidvat parishad \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Re: A grateful request  
Date: Mon, 20 Oct 2014 22:16:37 -0400  
  

Dear Dr Sastry,  
  

As I wrote in my mail, I would like all to be more proactive than find what is wrong etc.

Think more fundamentally like "what" and "how".

Most of the "connect the dots" are wrong and must be discarded.

I observe some "connect the dots" still going on in other garbs.

They are not interesting. We need to come up with sharp problems

that can be probed with science tools and multidisciplinary analysis.  
  

I have two so far from this list:

1. Spectral analysis of sāmagāna to find musical notes

2. Importance of syllables in semantic information (given to me as varṇavāda)  
  

Let us try to make it twelve. Pre-Paninian linguistics is important.

Please create a (or many) problem definition(s) as you see it.



I had seen a posting on the titles of PhD thesis. I can check that list if someone

has access to it.  
  

Thank you.

Bijoy Misra

On Mon, Oct 20, 2014 at 9:50 PM, Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop) \<[sastr...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> > 
> > Namaste >
> I fully support and appreciate the important and valuable suggestion > made by Prof. RNI , reading: \< prepare a list of the "mysteries of > Indian Culture" from different perspectives \> and follow it up with > valuable research which will be with \< "....a fresh open-minded > analytic look ,… which are now shrouded in wordsor interpreted > arbitrarily..." \> . >
> 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > The first step, the humble yet critical one in this direction is to > get back to the core of ‘ Indian Linguistics’ and ‘ Indian model of > Scripting the languages (technically called lipi-shaastra of > pre-Paninian period )’ ; and build a firm bridge which connects the ‘ > Indian languages’ rather than divide them by using the
> ‘Aryan-Dravidian :: Sanskrit –Tamil “ paradigms. >
> 
> > The ‘ Font deliberations’ in the artificiality of ‘Typographies and > Type-setting foundry model orthography’ will be of limited value in > this exploration. >
> 
> > Can we list of people willing to put their energies in this area ? – > Of course please write off the line, to keep the clutter less. 
> > 
> > Regards >
> BVK Sastry >
> 
> >  style="border:none;border-top:solid #b5c4df 1.0pt;padding:3.0pt 0in 0in 0in"> >
> **From:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() > \[mailto:[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\] **On Behalf Of** R. N. > iyengar  
> **Sent:** Saturday, 18 October, 2014 4:46 AM  
> **To:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
> **Subject:** {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Re: A grateful request >
> 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Dear Scholars, >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > This is a very interesting post, as I am convinced of the following > statement of Sri Bijoy Misra: >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > "....a fresh open-minded analytic look would help unravelmysteries in > the Indian culture, which are now shrouded in wordsor interpreted > arbitrarily..." >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > This is a timely and thought provoking statement. This could lead to > controversies and difference of opinions, but मतभेद is part of Indian > intellectual tradition.My two penny worth of further suggestion: >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > To start with, it would be worthwhile to prepare a list of the > "mysteries of Indian Culture" from different perspectives. After this > for analysis one can take up
> > 
> > 
> > (a) a statement, a legend, from the more ancient texts and then see > how this has evolved (perhaps with multiple meanings) and got > ingrained into current cultural practices. OR >
> 
> > 
> > b) do the reverse.That is trace the evolution of a current mystery or > practice or observance backwards thro' the PuraNas into the Vedic > texts. >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > As far as Sanskrit texts are concerned, for the above type of > analysis, one has to handle the originals and not their modern > translations. Commentaries in Sanskrit and occasionally texts written > in local languages prior to 17-18th Centuries would be helpful. In any > case without textual criticism no analysis would be possible. I > venture to propose two problems (among many others) for > investigation: >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 1) How far the Kartikeya (born to Krittikas with brother Vis'Akha) > legend falling (Skanda) from the sky on the Sixth Day after a New Moon > (MahAbhArata) is correlated with the modern knowledge of the Taurid > group of asteroids and meteoritic showers appearing once in six > months? In which parts of India the Skanda festival is observed twice > in a year? Is this KArtikeya (KumAra) same as Sanat-kumAra? >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 2) Indian classical Raaga music is said by ancient writers to have > originated from SAmagAna. Is it possible to establish by careful > spectral analysis of recorded Sama-chants (saptakas) the ratios of the > different seven svaras used with statistical error bands? >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Thanks
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > RN Iyengar >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > >   
> > On Friday, October 17, 2014 10:04:29 AM UTC+5:30, Bijoy wrote: > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Dear friend scholars, > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > --  
> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
> ---  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>. >
> 
> > 



--  
निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
---  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

  
  

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**Odd Trick Fights Diabetes**  
"Unique" Proven Method To Control Blood Sugar In 3 Weeks. Watch Video.  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/5446dafaafbb35af94c3fst04vuc)[DiabetesProtocol.com](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/5446dafaafbb35af94c3fst04vuc)

