+++
title = "019 Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)	2014-10-22, 09:40:04 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/z1rCKyuNQGo)]]



Namaste Prof. R N Iyengar



Thanks for a thought provoking line for investigation. I concur with your note \< investigation only into "Sanskrit as a Language" is unlikely to unlock all doors. \> . This is the reason why I used the
word \< Pre-Paninian linguistics>, with an expanded scope. It is a pointer to the \< Mother Stock of Indian Native Languages> which Panini ( and Pre-Paninian grammarians) seems to be addressing, a group of languages used in antique period documents;

The set of documents which we are calling as Veda, Vedanga, Ramayana
and Mahabharata- all lumped in to one basket called ‘ Sanskrit’ and ‘
interpreting them proudly by force-fitting to the mold of Paninian rule base. Even this is done only in a tinkering way, giving a good riddance to the mediavel ‘Shaastra-Sampradaya traditions’ ! The
modern approach shortcomings being (i) Invoking ONLY the limited scope of ‘Bhashaa part of Panini’s work, which is only 40 % of Ashtadhyayi ; and sidelining 60% of the work which covers ‘Chnadas’- Vedic documents ( ii) Sidelining Yaska, Amarsimha and Parbhashaa technicalities and preferentially substituting Monier Williams for meaning derivations ?!



The primary question remains: What was the nature and vocabulary of
Native Indian linguistics model prior to 700 BCE , a pre-paninian time line? Which will help us to understand the heritage documents? 



This is different from furthering the PIE –linguistics colonial indology approach, which demands a hidden deep thread of hypothetical acceptance of a ‘God Given global universal mother stock of language’
with overtones linked to the tower of Babel story in Bible. \< Genesis 11:1-9- New International Version (NIV) – ‘ whole world had one language and a common speech’; and the branching out of ten languages based on story from Bible ; Bible setting a faith based timeline of 4000 BCE for God creating the World in seven days.



1. Why I call for investigation for \< Pre-paninian Lipi-shaastra \> ? What is it ? Why ? 



I am using two hypothesis in constructing the argument here: (a) Any society with a high level of linguistic excellence ( like Vedic Sanskrit) cannot fail to have a commensurate arithmetic concept and scripting convention. (b) If there is evidence of a Vedic Society in Saraswati-Sindu Excavations, for town planning work of masons and traders conducting business and carrying on money transactions with artifacts of ‘metals and awareness of metallurgy’ , then one can be safely infer a system of numeric counting of weights and measures, a convention of scripted document to prepare an authoritative document of ownership.



Investigating the connecting threads for this hypothesis is the scope of ‘ Pre-paninian lipi-Shaastra’.



These two by default lead to infer the knowledge of ‘ Zero’ in the ancient Indian communities. 



We take so much pride in the timeless transcendent / antiquity of vedic resources, which do provide words like ‘ ekam ( unit position numerals), Shatam ( two zeros after unit), the concept of ‘ Amsha- Kalaa’ ( = parts of this, which could be interpreted as ‘ decimal system; dashamaamsha paddhati; The famous upanishadic story on ‘You are the Tenth one ! Dashamastvamasi). 



Before going further, let me seek concurrence for an acceptable historic
time line for exploring this exploration on Pre-Paninian linguistics.
I place this as a period prior to 700 BCE (Panini- Ashtadhyayi firmed / Buddha and Mahaveera) , just for convenience of reference ; this can go back at least up to 3100 BCE where Mahabharta war is currently posted; and then to Early Harappan civilizations (Sindhu Saraswati evidence / around 5000 BCE- upper limit of Vedic documents. Valmiki Ramayana would come in between these periods. ( I am keeping aside the traditional ‘ Yuga’ concept, which will need adding several zeros in front of unit ( =Ekam /Eka Stahana). This will also avoid the overdrawing on conventional understanding based on Sanskrit resources. This will also avoid my getting entangled with the Apaurusheyatva of Vedas; Avatar concept of MahaVishnu which heavily draws upon the Purana’s. ). 



If we are to take the evidence of town planning, available through Pro. Lal, Kalyanaraman, Michael Danino and other scholars work on Dolavira, we do see that this civilization of around 3000 BCE made
‘knowledgeable and conscious use of mathematical ratios compliant to a
rule base ( currently known as ‘ Vastu’. An intelligent use of mathematical ratios like this in town planning by artisans and masons, suggests that this society must have a knowledge of ‘ ratios and proportions’ – which necessarily implies that they must have had a knowledge of a ‘ reference center point’, which we identify as ‘ Zero’ point. This is from the coordinate marking perspective, left and right marking. What word they used for this concept ? Was it Sanskrit OR some other language ? It cannot be ascertained with certainty.



IF we look at the concept of ‘Zero’ as a ‘ zero reminder’ in arithmetic operations, ( the linked concept of Bhaaga-haara /Shesha), the details may have to be looked at in the ‘ Jyotir-Ganita’- which looks for the large ratios and reminders to calculate the ‘Aharganas’. You have done excellent work in this area. Whether they had other concepts of ‘ multiplication and division by zero’ – it will be matter of conjecture and ingenuity of interpretation.



IF, as present day scholars project , we are to accept the ‘evolution of script’, and position Kharoshtri at a certain history- time line slot, which cannot be earlier to 700BCE ( - Buddha’s time ), then how did the pre-Buddha Indian civilizations work with the concept of ‘ Measues’ – Pramana / Samkhyaa / Prameya – which are technical Sanskrit words, closely related to the abstract concepts of measures, ratios and proportions , and without a ‘ word for Zero’ ? 



2. On the point \< Is there any serious discussion in shastraic Sanskrit texts about the origin and/or conceptual development of this ' padaartha, or guNa, or sankhyaa' or whatever one may call it! \>. I do believe it exists; and certainly prior to Annambhatta (1623 AD ). The works of philosophy in India seems to have focused more on the ‘ Tattva-Darshana’ – Tattva-Samkhyaana’ part by addressing the ‘Padartha Dharma – Nishreyasa’ issues; rather than a pure philosophy of number and measure, measurability ( Samkhayaa / Saa-Mkhya / Maana – Meyataa ) which would be mathematical abstractions.



The word ‘Shoonya’ is too technical and not precise enough to pin point the concept of a referential coordinate center position of ‘Zero’
or a no reminder in division (Bhaaga-hara /Shesha - Nishesha);



Can we form a new technical Sanskrit word for communicating the idea of ‘not an integer – positive or negative (Dhana /Runa)’ ? I do not know how valid it will be.

The literary use of the word ‘Shoonyam (vaasagruham vilokya)..’ would convey ‘ an isolated place than a numeric zero measure.



In astrology , shoonya-phalam is used to indicate a net zero, cancelled effect of various forces. The concept of ‘Daghdha –raashi’ - Combust in conjunction is also seen.



Other similar sounding idea words are ‘ aphala , nishphala’ – which again are fuzzy . not good enough to say ‘Zero’.



The word ‘Abhaava, Asat’ would mean more a negation, an absence, though it can be treated as zero . Again, ‘Abhaava’ is not a good substitute for Zero, as it is tagged to the technicalities of ‘ relative absence and presence / partial presence and time –related presence or absence’.




3. If we really need a concept evolution related to primary issues as Zero, we may have to do deeper and unbiased investigation , rather than noodling our understanding from ‘Sanskrit alone’ usage across documents of different time periods and disciplines. This is what is envisaged as \< Exploration in Pre-Paninian linguistics \>.



--  

निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
---  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

No virus found in this message.  
Checked by AVG - [www.avg.com](http://www.avg.com)  
Version: 2014.0.4765 / Virus Database: 4040/8425 - Release Date: 10/20/14

