+++
title = "040 Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)	2014-10-23, 07:26:51 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/z1rCKyuNQGo)]]



Namaste Radim Navyan



Nothing personal intended ; This is just a point of view shared in the interest of facilitating the Samskrutha Samshodhanam.



Please permit me to reflect on generalizations of dangerous nature noted in this post. This kind of approach kills the spirit of ‘ Vedanta –Jijnaasaa and Vijnana – Jijnaasaa ’ for balanced achievement of ‘ Purushartha –Paramartha’. Modern Science , with all its limitations has brought in good things and human welfare. Accept them and use them for exploration of the question : \< Anoraneeyaan, Mahato Maheeyaan’> in Matter and Nature before jumping to the next point \< atmaa asya Jantoh nihitam guhaayaam \>. Please post something which will help bring back life in to research (samshodhanaa) than promoting more deeper isolation of tradition from society.



Please understand the significance of the Gita statement \< Jnanam Vijnana Sahitam> before jumping around. The same Vedas which teach Paraa Vidyaa are also the anchor of Upa-Vedas and ‘A-paraa vidyas’. Your post pushes people to seek ‘ Ashram –Shishya- model’ than ‘Research – Scientist –Investigator - Tapas’ mode.



Here are the extracts from your post.



1. First one is sweeping statement \< Modern science is a mere second-hand belief, > : Unverifiable traditional scripture statement stands on the same platform.



2. Second is \< the limits of science are self-evidential in every aspect of our every-day life. > . Claims of traditional teams which cannot stand the Standard of ‘ Verifiability –Repeatability’ stand the same platform. The ‘belief’ tag will not always work . One need to show how the ‘ ihaiva’ – statement and claim works.



3. Third is \< What really do modern scientists is destroy the remainders of divinity \> . It is not scientists who do this; It is the ‘ docile traditionalists who wait ‘ God’ to answer the questions as a ‘payback’ to their ‘Bhakti’ ! Please see Third chapter of Gita – ‘ Karmanaiva hi samshiddhim, aasthitaa janakaadayah’. Don’t get to the shadow of Kaliyuga theory . Find a way and follow what Acharyas have shown for investigating the tradition.



4. Fourth is \< (science /Scientist is) disrespect to true spiritial masters And that is the shortest way to hell for the humanity \> : A very farfetched imagination ! Does anyone want to explore how the ‘ religious beliefs’ have caused social miseries and health hazards in Indian traditional parlance ? It will be a saddening research exploration.





5. Fifth is \< (Free advise) - Advice for any scientist. Try to live in total exile for at least three months.. And bound one have no moral right to 'research' sacred things. It is strictly prohibited by dharma-shastras….. That’s why all that ‘researces’ are mere the form of time-killing. You’d better go fishing, or mounting, or gardening. Or try to research your inner soul.> This is the height of improper freelancing advise ! Puranas show how ‘ tapas’ doers went to this ‘ isolation model’ and came back with powers which they exercised for ‘ aasuree sampath’. The issue here is not about the application of ‘ tapas’ . The question is investigation to ‘Tapas –Efficiency procedure, and Panchabhoota Vijnana ’.  
  

6. Sixth is \< 'Researches' without guru are worth the same as licking own beltch. > : Can you please oblige with names of traditional scholars and ‘ Yoga-Vedanta Guru’s who come up for a competent dialogue with modern researchers and scientists ? Even to explain the primary paradigm of Matter-Energy –Consciousness ( Padarthi - Shakti – Chaitanya) – and Panchabhoota as distinct from ‘ Periodic Table Atom /Quantum theory’ model ? Please explore why traditional texts use the
‘ upamanas’ related to ‘repeating the text without ever having the taste of it is compared in tradition’ - to \< ladle in the sweet soup -(darvee suparassan iva) – Sthanurayam Bhaaraharah – Madookavat ratarataayate et al. 



7. Seventh is : \< This is the true scientific method. The only one. You discover the everlasting Truth, the ever-fresh knowledge of something, that stays unattainable by any outer 'scientific' instruments. And if you succeed, you'll see, how childish you were trying to measure grains of sand. The only answer for your "Why?'s" would be "Because". With no extention to it. \> You need to prove your statement. It just cannot be accepted, just because you say so !





Regards



BVK Sastry





**From:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() \[mailto:[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\] **On Behalf Of** Radim Navyan

  
**Sent:** Wednesday, 22 October, 2014 1:03 PM  
**To:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  

**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Re: A grateful request



No virus found in this message.  
Checked by AVG - [www.avg.com](http://www.avg.com)  

Version: 2015.0.5315 / Virus Database: 4181/8436 - Release Date: 10/22/14



