+++
title = "053 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2014-10-25, 07:01:36 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/z1rCKyuNQGo)]]



Oct 24, 2014



Dear Dr, Bijoy Mishra,



I appreciate your suggestion. Harvard Oriental series is very high level publication. I have told you before that I do not have Ph.D. in Sanskrit.First I will try to make a pdf file of the content of my book
and e-mail to you. Give me couple of days. NRJOSHI

See this also.



Dear Dr. Bijoy Mishra

Thanks for your e-mail. I am facing some problems in publishing the book on VarNavaada.

(1) When I started writing the book I used fonts of Arielnew with diacritical marks given to me one scholar in USA. There was no Unicode 10 years ago.

(2) Finding the publisher. Publishers from India want me to send to them a chapter or two through e-mail. The diacritical marks will not appear. Publisher from India may not be eager to install Arielnew fonts on his computer if I send file of font to him.

(3) To convert the whole book into MS Unicode (to make PDF file) will take a time because there are many Sanskrit words in the book

(4) This is what I am thinking now. Get the ISBN number in USA. And self-publish the book in the thesis form. Also send copies to few well known Sanskrit scholars to review and suggest publisher. Publisher may have to take new ISBN number.

I am scientist like you. I do not have Ph.D. in Sanskrit, I had education of Sanskrit in India before I migrated to USA. My original interest was phonetics because of my training in acoustics. I was fascinated by the scientific arrangement of letters of alphabet of Sanskrit. I wanted to have concept catching Sanskrit words for English scientific terminology from Physics, Engineering subjects. After my retirement from university I started reading more books on linguistics. There I came across debate on Sphotavaada and VarNavaada in Indian philosophy. This debated is still going on. VarNavaada is supported by Aadya Shankar, Upavarshacarya, Kumaril Bhatta. My ideas were becoming to crystallize. Finally it dawned on me that Phonemic symbolism cannot be a random phenomenon. It has to have solid foundation. I found that in the periodic physical properties of articulated Sanskrit VarNas.

(5) From 2009 I came across the Sanskrit scholars from India on BVP. I started checking my ideas with them. Some of them liked it. I traveled to Hyderabad and showed my work to Prof S, Korada (important contributor to BVP). Many Sanskrit scholars believe that Sanskrit is divine language revealed to Vedic sages in Yogic trance. The western scholars believe that Sanskrit is one of the languages of Indo-European family and there is nothing special about it except it was very ancient language of Hindu scriptures. Sanskrit scholars from India respect Aadya Shankar for his spiritual books but do not want to talk about his VarNavaada. I do not remember whether I sent to you the content pages of my book. If not let me know. I will send it by US postal mail. Diacritical marks may not appear in e-mail. You have to give me your postal address for mail. Wherever I go and show my power point, people ask for the book. This is my dilemma. If you have suggestions, please help me. Thanks. N.R.Joshi



  
  


  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**Map Your Flood Risk**  
Find Floodplan Maps, Facts, FAQs, Your Flood Risk Profile and More!  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/544ac216bd0cc42160180st02vuc)[floodsmart.gov](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/544ac216bd0cc42160180st02vuc)

