+++
title = "054 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2014-10-25, 07:01:46 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/z1rCKyuNQGo)]]



Oct 21, 2014



Dear RNI and other respected Scholars



I my opinion, Shunya means go on decreasing amplitue based on VarNavaada of phonemes /y/,/r/./v/./l/ and /sha/. Rearranged by me. Examples of meaning of /sh/. Check the words--Shaakha, Shikhaa, Sheetala, Shastra, Shiva (sitting naked -decreased in amplitude), Shoonya, Shula,Sheela, Shoka, Shankha (tapers at one end), Shabda (sound pulse-rises and then decreases in amplitude), Shuddha, ShroNee, Upanishad says, Atmaa is Indra in side body (with Indtriyas) but when it leaves body it flies like Shyena, It means it is reduced in amplitude (meaning of /sh/. Aitareya Upanishad. NRJoshi

  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: "R. N. iyengar" \<[narayana...@gmail.com]()\>  
To: "[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()" \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Re: A grateful request  

Date: Tue, 21 Oct 2014 21:55:52 +0530  
  

Dear Dr.Shastry,



Namaskaara! I share your desire for seeing new things happen in the field of Indic culture in general and Sanskritic tradition in particular. You mention Pre-paninian Lipi-shaastra. I could not understand this clearly. If you meant Karoshthi etc going back to the Indus scripted seals, claimed to be nearer to Tamil linguistically (but as script, I am not aware); yes this is a huge mystery likely to remain so, for a long long time. But at a personal level I am fairly well convinced investigation only into "Sanskrit as a Language" is unlikely to unlock all doors.

There is one mystery, linguistic or otherwise, that is "ZERO". Since you are a traditionally trained scholar in addition to being a modern analyst, I like to ask you the following. Is there any serious discussion in shastraic Sanskrit texts about the origin and/or conceptual development of this ' padaartha, or guNa, or sankhyaa' or whatever one may call it! I am sure Annambhatta knew 'zero' (also fractions) but he touched upon only 'Integers" in his work. (I like to be corrected if my impression is wrong). There are arguments that link zero to Buddhist 'Shuunya'. But I always felt 'zero' as a concept is nearer to the 'Abhaava' of Taarkikas as an 'Absence'. I would appreciate if you and/or other scholars enlighten me in understanding "zero' from the point of view of Shaastra tradition.

best regards



RN Iyengar

  

On Tue, Oct 21, 2014 at 7:20 AM, Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop) \<[sastr...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> > 
> > Namaste >
> I fully support and appreciate the important and valuable suggestion > made by Prof. RNI , reading: \< prepare a list of the "mysteries of > Indian Culture" from different perspectives \> and follow it up with > valuable research which will be with \< "....a fresh open-minded > analytic look ,… which are now shrouded in wordsor interpreted > arbitrarily..." \> . >
> 
> > The first step, the humble yet critical one in this direction is to > get back to the core of ‘ Indian Linguistics’ and ‘ Indian model of > Scripting the languages (technically called lipi-shaastra of > pre-Paninian period )’ ; and build a firm bridge which connects the ‘ > Indian languages’ rather than divide them by using the
> ‘Aryan-Dravidian :: Sanskrit –Tamil “ paradigms. >
> 
> > The ‘ Font deliberations’ in the artificiality of ‘Typographies and > Type-setting foundry model orthography’ will be of limited value in > this exploration. >
> 
> > Can we list of people willing to put their energies in this area ? – > Of course please write off the line, to keep the clutter less. 
> > 
> > Regards >
> BVK Sastry >
> 
> >  style="border:none;border-top:solid #b5c4df 1.0pt;padding:3.0pt 0in 0in 0in"> >
> **From:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() > \[mailto:[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\] **On Behalf Of** R. N. > iyengar  
> **Sent:** Saturday, 18 October, 2014 4:46 AM  
> **To:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
> **Subject:** {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Re: A grateful request >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Dear Scholars, >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > This is a very interesting post, as I am convinced of the following > statement of Sri Bijoy Misra: >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > ".. >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Thanks
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > RN Iyengar >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > >   
> > On Friday, October 17, 2014 10:04:29 AM UTC+5:30, Bijoy wrote: > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Dear friend scholars, > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 



--  

निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
---  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.



