+++
title = "006 Dr.BVK Sastry"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry	2012-08-09, 20:52:15 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/FrkUz5aiRXk)]]



Namaste  
  
Sri Chamu KrishnaShastry's assertive statements are to the point.  
Yes,\<we have to think about this and find a good solution \>.  
  
This wrong notion about 'Sanskrit teaching-examination System' in  
schools is permeating in almost ALL states of India; especially the  
school management and communities. This has also lead to the language  
factionism and division -approach projecting Sanskrit as a threat to  
local languages. The tags of ' Sanskrit as a vedic /Brahmanical /  
Priestly class /Oppresive / Casteist' language are vigorously planted  
in young minds in the study of other topics, especially social studies  
covering history of india.  
  
This issue is not limited to India! The question needs to be  
expanded from \< Why Indians should study Sanskrit as a part of Public  
funded schooling system? How this should be structured? for what  
perceived goals? \> TO \< Why any one should study Sanskrit as a part  
of earlyschooling and spiritual grooming system? What beenfits can  
Samskrutham bring in to the Health care -Wellness Culture as a part of  
life style? How this should be structured at various levels, in a  
nation wide, community specific need based mode ? What investment  
needs to be made in what kind of tools and delviery mechanism to be  
developed ? Who should make supporting investments in what scale? For  
whom is Samskrutham a Challenge of Identity as a Language and Culture?  
\>.  
  
The problem is global. The solutions touch beyond India, beyond  
Hindus to a global yoga community. In other words, the question is :  
What can Samskrutham deliver to every one on earth, for enriching  
life, helping health and wellness, leading good life ?  
  
The purpose of Sanskrit education is moved out beyond the cliche  
answers ' Culture/ Indian (Bharateeya -Samskruthi) - OR- Culturing /  
Hindu ( Hindu Samskara) - OR - Classical /Religious Language Skills  
acqusitistion or appreciation ( Kavya-Sahitya -Bhashaa Jnana) -OR -  
even understanding 'Religion-Ritual (Samskara-Pooja Paddhati) ' !  
  
2. My analysis for reasons of current position of Sanskrit  
Education :  
  
First : The Indian Language Education modeling of Sanskrit in Public  
Education on the lines of Englsi, which is an alien -social -  
degenerative langauge of incompatible genre. This is native rejection  
of 'Samskrutham' as Brahmi: Mother of Indian language. The result is  
in improper fitment of gurukul-voice based training-evaluation system  
for culture to montessori model of written examination for marks  
scoring.  
  
Second : Policy-Practical Executive Setting goal of Samskrutham  
leanring on par with the social language (-especially local language /  
english) usage. This is a total shift in the paradigm of Samskrutham  
studies in India. The shift is from  
\<studying Samskrutham for Values - Samskruthi> to \< Studying  
Sanskrit for Language skill acquisiton for conversation - Bhashaa  
Panditya and Samvaada \> . The goal of Samskrutham studies was  
redefined from the perspective of Social relevacne - Conversational  
usage - Social connectivity. This brought in a new dimension of  
popular appreciation as the standard of Samskrutham schoalrship.  
  
Third : Initial Exposure of students to an inappropriate system of  
Samskrutham /Sanskrit schooling education in an alien way, without a  
ground preparedness for the students, teachers, parents.  
  
Students are not prepared by age \< around 14 years when they enter  
high school to learn Sanskrit through sanskrit medium> .  
Teachers are not prepared by training and pedagogy to teach  
Samskrutham in a class-age-environment way.  
Parents are not ready by community environment to appreciate the  
impact of Samskrutham for life -values.  
  
Thus, the current indian schooling system of Sanskrit has already  
made 'Samskrutham' a foreign language to the native learner ! and  
education system. This is a result of the policy and system related  
shifts,distrubing the vision of 'Why Sanskrit education in mass media  
- mass way required for India' - as deliberated in the Indian  
Constitution and National Language Eduation policy. There is a  
critical need to reflect: ( Vishwa-Samskrutham ityasya korthaH?) Why  
Samskrutham For World ? Yes, \<we have to think about this and find a  
good solution>  
  
Regards  
  
BVK Sastry  

  
On Aug 9, 9:51am, Shrikant Jamadagni \<[shrikan...@yahoo.co.in]()\> wrote:  
\> Dear scholars,  
\>  
\> Just a suggestion.  
\>  
\> I think from whatever class (whether 5th or 8th etc) Sanskrit is introduced in school; for 1 year Sanskrit should be taught only orally. Only listening and speaking. This will make them intimate with the language by developing basic sentence-forming skills and vocabulary. This may make things very easy later on.  
\>  
\> warm regards  
\>  
\> Shrikant Jamadagni  
\>  
\> Bangalore  
\>  

\> --- On Wed, 8/8/12, Veeranarayana Pandurangi \<[veera...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

\>  
\> From: Veeranarayana Pandurangi \<[veera...@gmail.com]()\>  
\> Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} An article of importance  
\> To: [krishnashas...@hotmail.com]()  
\> Cc: "BVP" \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
\> Date: Wednesday, 8 August, 2012, 7:33 PM  
\>  
\> dear sir,thanks for your thought provoking paper on the sanskrit education.  

\> though I am not expert in this issue,here is a small observation on it.Many people in Rajasthan opine that by making compulsory to write answers in sanskrit instead of hindi or english is one thing that making things difficult for students. it is taking sheen of sanskrit as a paper.  

\>  
\> we have to think about this and find a good solution.  
\>  

\> On Wed, Aug 8, 2012 at 5:02 PM, krishna shastry \<[krishnashas...@hotmail.com]()\> wrote:  
\>  
\> Dear Scholars,Though I had posted this Article in this group yesterday, I came to know that it did not open in a few computers. Hence it is being posted again,More over, this is a smaller file.  

\> The article discusses the present difficult situation being faced by Samskrit.  

\> The present situation is the result of our "inaction" or inability to properly understand and prioritize our "actions" in the last one or two decades.Today if we repeat the same, within the next two or three decades, our children would see the fall of Samskrit to the unimaginable nadir.  
\> Taking refuge under the rhetoric that "Samskrit is Amarabhasha" "no need to protect, it will protect itself" will be an excuse to one's inaction or unwillingness to act.I earnestly appeal to every one of you to read and act.  
\> Please pardon me for using harsh words both in this letter and the article.If any one of you want to personally convey anything to me, you may kindly do the same to the following ID - [krishnashas...@hotmail.com]()  



