+++
title = "037 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-07-18, 13:25:30 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/fhiY6eK0DTM)]]



Namaste



On the term \< gadaa / guna> - **why ‘gadaam’ ? For further contemplation please.**



1. guna – based explanation is already detailed .



Every change in the icon description and change in position has a specific purpose.

Example: the representation of 24 forms of Vishnu as ‘ Keshava, Naarayana..’ have shifted arrangements of chakra, shankha, gadaa, …’.



**Explore the following also for understanding the meaning of the term ‘ gadaa’ and plausible iconic representations. Some meanings may fit only in a context; some wont fit at all !** . Meaning source is Cologne dictionary listing. 



**gaḍā** : (H2) \[Cologne record ID=62479\] \[Printed book page 342,3\]

gaḍa m. a kind of gold-fish (the young of the Ophiocephalus Lata or another species, Cyprinus Garra), L. a screen, covering, fence, L. \[ID=62480\] , a moat, ditch, L. \[ID=62481\]



** गदा : **(H2) \[Cologne record ID=62869\] \[Printed book page 344,2\]

 गद m. a sentence, MBh. i, 1787 , disease, sickness, Suśr.; Ragh. &c. \[ID=62870\]



 N. of a son of Vasu-deva and younger brother of Kṛṣṇa, MBh.; Hariv.; BhP. \[ID=62871\] of another son of Vasu-deva by a different mother, ix, 24, 51 \[ID=62872\]



गद n. poison, L. \[ID=62873\]



गदा a f. **a series of sentences**, RāmatUp. ii, 5, 4 \[ID=62874\] a mace, club, bludgeon, MBh.; R. &c. \[ID=62875\] Bignonia suaveolens, L. \[ID=62876\] N. **of a musical instrument** \[ID=62877\] of **a constellation**, VarBṛ.; Laghuj. \[ID=62878\]



v.l. for गधा, TS. Sch. (cf. अ-गद, अ-विज्ञात-ग्°.) \[ID=62879\]



(H2) \[Cologne record ID=62900\] \[Printed book page 344,3\]

गदा b f. of °द q.v. an impediment, L. \[ID=62482\]



N. of a district (part of Malva, commonly Garha or Garha Maṇḍala), L. \[ID=62483\]



gaḍā f. (in music) a kind of Rāgiṇī (cf. tṛṇa-g°, payo-g°.) \[ID=62484\]






Regards

BVK Sastry





















Nagaraj Paturi



Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA.





BoS, MIT School of Vedic Sciences, Pune, Maharashtra



BoS, Chinmaya Vishwavidyapeeth, Veliyanad, Kerala



Former Senior Professor of Cultural Studies



FLAME School of Communication and FLAME School ofLiberal Education,



(Pune, Maharashtra,INDIA)







--  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  

To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

--  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

  
  



--

Nagaraj Paturi













To unsubscribe from this group and all its topics, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().

  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.



