+++
title = "006 Dr. T. Ganesan"

+++
[[Dr. T. Ganesan	2012-02-19, 19:47:16 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/pWtGoaOpY8Y)]]





Dear Divakar and Friends,

The Atharvasira Upanishad is the famous and well known Upanishad that begins with  
oṃ devā ha vai svargalokam āyaṃs te rudram apṛcchan ko bhavān iti /  
establishing the Supremacy of Siva over all other gods. That along with the  
Atharvasikhaa is the very ancient Upanishad proclaiming Siva's greatness and  
sunique supremacy.  
There is a tradition according to which the five Saiva Upanishads--Svetasvatara,  
Kaivalya, Atharvasira, Atharvasikhaa and Bhasmajaabaalopanishads--are daily  
recited by the "Vaidika Pashupata" .  
The Niilarudra Upanishad (-Suukta) is a section of the well known  
Mahanarayanopanishad, which is the 10th section of the Taittiriiya AraNyaka; the  
Niilarudra is the section 16:1 of this Mahanaaraayanopanishad. This has been  
very well commented by the pre-sayana Vedic commentator Bhatta Bhaskara.  
This Niilarudra Upanishad is cited as authority by Srii Kumaara in his  
commentary Taatparyadiipikaa, on the famous Tattvaprakaasha verse, 1 of king  
Bhoja.

In fact one can say that the popular Ganapatyatharvasira (siirsha)Upanishad is  
modelled on this Saiva Atharvasira Upanishad.

With the best wishes  
Ganesan

Dr. T. Ganesan  
Senior Researcher in Saivasiddhanta  
French Institute of Pondicherry  
UMIFRE 21 CNRS-MAEE  
11, St. Louis Street  
P.B. 33 PONDICHERRY-605001  
INDIA  
Tel: [+91 - 413 - 233 4168 ext. 119](tel:+91%20413%20233%204168)  
E mail: [gan...@ifpindia.org]()  
Web: [www.ifpindia.org](http://www.ifpindia.org)

