+++
title = "022 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2017-11-02, 22:03:05 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/GeuCTft9Inc)]]



Namaste



1. In response to the question by Achyut Karve, the 32 meaning of the term ‘ Kosha’ is presented below. If we take the listed meaning at 12, is that to be for the exclusion of the rest ? Does AMARAKOSHA match to this translation ?



 **QUESTION/s**: How and which of the 32 meanings of the term
‘ Kosha’ translate and map to the concept of ‘ Lexicon / Dictionary’ ?

 Who started this ‘ Kosha = Dictionary – Lexicon’ equation ? Is it the most appropriate or convenient method to work with TERMS IN SAMSKRUTHAM ?

 Does ‘Amarsimha declare his intention of compiling ‘Amara-Kosha’ on the model of a ‘ Lexicon or a Dictionary’ ?

**BECAUSE**

 Every Samskruth Term ( Pada ) needs VYUTPATTI – NIRVACHANA and ANVAYA to arrive at the ‘ Vivakshita –artha’ /Taatparya .

 Does the current Tools - of
‘SANSKRIT DICTIONARIES’ PROVIDE appropriate facilities with Critical
Information pl.





**The explanation of what is a LEXICON and DICTIONARY are provided below**:



**LEXICON** : The vocabulary of a person, language, or branch of knowledge. ‘the size of the English lexicon’

 Early 17th century: modern Latin, from Greek lexikon (biblion) ‘(book) of words’, from lexis ‘word’, from legein ‘speak’.





**Dictionary**: A book or electronic resource that lists the words of a language (typically in alphabetical order) and gives their meaning, or gives the equivalent words in a different language, often also providing information about pronunciation, origin, and usage. Early 16th century: from medieval Latin dictionarium (manuale) or dictionarius (liber) ‘manual or book of words’, from Latin dictio (see diction).





**WIKI on Dictionary** : A dictionary, sometimes known as a wordbook, is a collection of words in one or more specific languages, often arranged alphabetically (or by radical and stroke for ideographic languages), which may include information on definitions, usage, etymologies, phonetics, pronunciations, translation, etc. or a book of words in one language with their equivalents in another, sometimes known as a lexicon. It is a lexicographical product which shows inter-relationships among the data. - <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dictionary>



I don’t wish anyone to build a research theory using the ‘ Kosha’- listed meanings and selective mapping to explain ‘ Amara-Kosha = Amara’s ( meaning listed at **18**Vulva, the womb.**-19**An egg.**-20**A testicle or the scrotum.**-21**The penis) as a ‘deconstruction of traditional thinking.



Such line of scholarly studies using the armor of academic freedom are not figments of imagination, but a reality seen around in some of the provocative writings on traditional issues and texts. 



Thanks in advance for clarifying the term ‘ Kosha’ mapped to ‘ Lexicon /Dictionary’.



Regards

BVK Sastry 



**From:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() \[mailto:[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\] **On Behalf Of** S. L. Abhyankar  
**Sent:** Wednesday, November 1, 2017 11:25 PM  
**To:** Bharatiya Vidvat parishad  
**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Re: Hyderabad Amarakosha



अमरकोशः केनापि अमरसिंहेन विरचितः / अतः अमरस्य कोशः इतिअमरकोशः /



--  

You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  

To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().



