+++
title = "008 ram"

+++
[[ram	2017-02-11, 14:59:04 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/0_GgtWrdBNQ)]]



Dear SKB ji,

If the discussions were hovering around some fictitious name \`Aryabhatta' (how the word gets derived etc.), I wouldn't have ventured even to step into the discussion, as I know my limitations. I haven't studied grammar per se, and hence my knowledge of grammar is abysmal.  

Since your queries regarding the derivation (as per your own admission) were answered (by other scholars), and you brought the name of the famous astronomer Aryabhata to fore (connecting him with Varahamihira, etc), I was tempted to pitch in, as I have been studying the work of this great mind for quite sometime. In fact, the impulse to make a post came, since the discussion continued, describing the name of the astronomer as \`Aryabhatta' even after reading the article of Prof. Sarma.  

Let me reiterate what I said in one of my earlier posts -- न कश्चिन्नापराद्ध्यति\| That being the case, I don't think any human can be totally infallible. And Prof. Sarma being a human being, can indeed be fallible, and having studied several works edited by Prof. Sarma --- for whose dedication I have highest regards --- for many years since now, I know of a few such instances (though rare) too.

Having said this, let me come to the main point I wanted to make. In my earlier posting, all my remarks were pertaining only to the content of the article of Prof. Sarma (posted by Dr. Mamata Dash). With respect to this article I said: \`\`The arguments presented are quite impeccable." And so too, it is with respect to the content of your post I said: \`\`still writing Aryabhatta is ...". In neither of the cases, were the remarks oriented toward the individuals, and hence no question of \`\`ad hominem" remarks (arrogance etc.). Hope this also incidentally convinces that nothing was posted hastily.  

By the way, even in the other posting (related to the review of Mr. Pattanaik famous book) all the qualifiers used by me were related to the \`\`work" and not the \`\`individual". Hence, the advice of the moderator not to make \`\`ad hominem" remarks seem to be -- अप्रसक्तप्रति़षेध, so to say.

Thanks for sharing your thoughts.  

Best regards,





> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().



