+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-12-22, 16:23:33 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/hUA-AsR69E0)]]



Panchanga ganitam live webcast 24 to 26 Dec. 2010 IST starting on 24 Dec. 2010 at 10 AM (IST)

  

Shubha kaamanaayen, Govind Hari ji for putting together a superb team which has made possible this cutting edge technology reaching out to the entire globe -- views of about 120 scholars on Hindu Panchanga-making traditions.

  

Please stay-tuned to enjoy the webcasts live by clicking on

<http://panchangaganitam.org/>

[](http://panchangaganitam.org/)

from 10 AM on 24 December 2010 to 26 December 2010 to view the broadcasts of the conference proceedings organized by HDAS at Tirumala.

  

Again, dhanyavaadaah, Govind Hari ji.

  

kalyanaraman  
  
  

---------- Forwarded message ----------  
From: **Govind Hari R** \<[rgovi...@gmail.com]()\>  
Date: Wed, Dec 22, 2010 at 3:56 PM  
Subject: Fwd: panchanga ganitham  
To: "S. Kalyanaraman" \<[kaly...@gmail.com]()\>  
  
FIRST NATIONAL CONFERENCE ON PANCHANGA GANITHAM ORGANISED BY HINDU DHARMA ACHARYA SABHAAT ASHTHANA MANDAPAM , TIRUMALA, A.P.

  

24TH TO 26TH DECEMBER, 2010 starting 10 AM on 24 Dec. 2010.

  

***LIVE TELECAST THROUGH INTERNET  
***

  

**Dear...**

  
**Namaskaar.  
**

**I am delighted to informyouthat theFirst National Conference on Panchanga Ganitham**



**is being**



**WEB (TELE ) CAST LIVE**

**DURING ALL THE DAYS OF THE PROGRAM.**



**Viewers can log on to****

<http://panchangaganitam.org/>

  

to view live entire proceedings at the Conference.

  

**Viewers can have a choice of language from English, Sanskrit, Hindi, Telugu, Tamil & Kannada for listening to the speeches.**





**Regards,  
**

**Secretary - HDAS**

  
  

\-  
R Govind Hari  
10-3-31/9/21, Nehru Nagar,  
East Marredpally,  
Secunderabad 500026  
Ph: [+91 (40) 2773 2386](tel:+91%2040%202773%202386) (R), 2773 7396 (O)  
  [+91 98491 68193](tel:+91%2098491%2068193) (Mobile)  
Fax: [+91 (40) 2773 2386](tel:+91%2040%202773%202386)  

  

