+++
title = "004 S. L. Abhyankar"

+++
[[S. L. Abhyankar	2018-12-26, 11:49:53 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/OXrKRRfJHFQ)]]



Mr. Priyadarshi Dutta has certainly brought forth some valid points worth deliberation. But there can be arguments on almost each and every point. So, I am not sure, whether his writing is with positive thinking or with negative thinking.

For example, he raises a point that Sanskrit lost out, when innovations ceased to be in Sanskrit. One wonders, whether innovation needs a language. Humphry Davi's arc lamp or Thomas Alva Edison's electric bulb would have glowed, would certainly have glowed, irrespective of the language in which the phenomenon be explained.

He also puts forth another point about persons well-versed in Sanskrit thought it fit to express their thoughts in languages other than Sanskrit, e.g. Rama-charita-manas by Goswami Tulsidas. When reading that portion, came to mind that Lokmanya Tilak wrote his commentary on Gita in Marathi, but wrote his Orion in English. It seems that every author has a target audience in mind and an author authors his writing in that language, which the target audience will appreciate.

He makes a point that promotion of a language should start in the field of education or "growth of knowledge". Comes to mind a thought that there is so much of Sanskrit authorship available in the subject of mathematics. One wonders whether learning and teaching of mathematics based on those Sanskrit texts will work wonders. Mr. Dutta has put forth his points of criticism. Has he suggested solutions and methods, which will hit two birds in one stone - growth of knowledge and revival of Sanskrit ?

1.  I guess study of भास्कराचार्य's सिद्धान्तशिरोमणी and of बोधायन's
    शुल्बसूत्राणि etc. may help that.
2.  Also, in the subject of philosophy, I contend that learning of
    philosophy as a subject can never be as rich, as can be by learning
    Sanskrit philosophical texts.

I would contend that there are solutions available in Sanskrit literature itself. A positive thinking attitude is also an important need. This also means in turn that negative thinking attitude needs to be discarded.

1.  Even for a digression, it comes to mind that there is a beautiful
    word in गीता, which dwells on the subject of thinking attitude
    (maybe, inclusive of thinking aptitude). That word is धृतिः. ! What
    a word !
2.  Can there be a perfect single-word translation of धृतिः in any, any
    language of the world ?

Would not one have instant respect for a language which has such a word ?!

I love Sanskrit for many. many such words ! The day when I get to comprehend even one such word, on that day, "my day is done" !

There are infinite number of such positives in Sanskrit. Think positively. Sanskrit will grow in you ! Sanskrit will grow around the world. I feel positively about this happening.

