+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-10-17, 18:40:56 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/rc5ldPYIGvA)]]



Call for papers: 2nd International Congress of Bengal Studies,Dhaka,  
17-19 December, 2011  
\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*  
From: H-Net Announcements \<[anno...@MAIL.H-NET.MSU.EDU]()\>  
  
CALL FOR PAPER 2ND INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS OF BENGAL STUDIES Dhaka,  
17th - 19th December, 2011  
  
Location:Bangladesh  
Call for Papers Date:2011-03-15  
Date Submitted: 2010-10-07  
Announcement ID: 179554  
  
Papers are invited for the 2nd International Congress of Bengal Studies scheduled to be held during 17th19th December, 2011. The 2nd Congress will be jointly hosted by theUniversity of DhakaandBangla Academy,Dhaka, Bangladesh.  
  
The theme of the 2011 Congress is Contemporary Bengal Studies. Papers on other areas of Bengal Studies, including, but not limited to, Literature and Criticism,Comparative Literature, Linguistics, Folklore, Cultural Studies, Media Studies, History, Economics, Sociology, Fine Arts, Philosophy,Anthropology, Archeology, Museulogy are also invited. Papers should be either in Bengali or in English.  
  
Last date for submission of paper proposal/abstract (300-500 words) is15th March, 2011. Proposals may be submitted to the Convener through post or email. Decision on the acceptance of the proposal will be communicated to the scholar within15th July, 2011. Participants must register by30th July, 2011, by paying BDT 1500/- (for Bangladesh)/ USD 30 (forSAARC countries)/ USD 50 (for other countries)/ BDT 500 or USD 10 (for students). Registration will cover right to attend all sessions, lunch, snacks and one copy of the abstract-book. Participants may arrange for their own accommodation. Information about some selected hotels andguest houseswill be provided soon by the organizers. Organizers have also arranged for a limited number of accommodation package which covers stay during 16th20th December, 2011, and, breakfast and dinner. The package may be booked through payment of USD 70 (for SAARC countries) / USD 200 (for other countries) / USD 20 (for students). Mode of payment etc will be communicated to confirmed participants. Participants are expected to share room with other delegates. Students will be allotted dormitory type accommodation. The organizers may arrange for a few scholarships for students andindependent scholarscovering the travel, registration and accommodation costs. Students and independent scholars interested to be considered for this scholarship must submit their full paper by30th March, 2011.  
  
Prof. Rafique Ullah Khan, Convener,  
2nd International Congress of Bengal Studies,  
University of Dhaka  
Dhaka, 1000 Bangladesh  
  
Email:[icbs2...@gmail.com]()  
Visit the website at[http://www.banglabidya.org](http://www.banglabidya.org/)  

  

Call for papers: The Third Conference on Orientalisms and the Asian and Arab Diasporas in the Americas and theIberian Peninsula,April 22-23, 2011,University of California - Merced  
  
  
The Third Conference on Orientalisms and the Asian and Arab Diasporas in the Americas and the Iberian Peninsula  
  
Location:California, United States  
Call for Papers Date:2011-03-01  
Date Submitted: 2010-10-11  
Announcement ID: 179647  
  
The name of this years conference is Imaging the Oriental in the Americas and the Iberian Peninsula. The conference will be held on Friday, APRIL 22 andSaturday, APRIL 23, 2011at the University of California, Merced. All presentations will be held at the Chancellors Conference Room (Kolligian Library 232).  
  
Ignacio Lopez-Calvo, Cristin Ricci, Kevin Fellezs  
University of California, Merced  
  
Email:[ilopez...@ucmerced.edu](),[cri...@ucmerced.edu](),[kfel...@ucmerced.edu]()  
  
Visit the website at<http://faculty1.ucmerced.edu/ilopez-calvo/2.cfm?pm=212&lvl=2&menuid=478>

  

Raghav Mittal \|9540055231\| 011-22752423  
\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*  
EDITOR, UPTU WATCH  
[www.uptuwatch.com](http://www.uptuwatch.com/)

  

