+++
title = "003 Arun"

+++
[[Arun	2010-10-04, 13:17:12 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/sHpVK35V-e4)]]



Tere is no basis of declaration that Devanagari script did not exist  
before 3000 BC. At least scientists should know meaning of dates and  
their determination. Forms of letters have been changing, but not the  
arrangements of script-otherwise no document before 3000 BC will have  
any meaning. All the inscriptions of janamejaya were published in  
Mysore Antiquary of 1901 as indicated in the note. The publications in  
journal were not in the original script but as it was read. These have  
been referred and discussed a lot. It was examined by Colebrook who  
took help of Royal astronomer Airy to date the inscriptions. There was  
no foolproof method to date solely on basis of eclipse occurence.  
Firstly, ancient planetary positions give error of about 26 to 68  
hours in 3100 BC as per various modeels of rate of slowing of earth's  
axial rotation discussed by study of Jaan Meus of NASA in 2005 about 5  
millenium of Eclipses. Secondly, eclipses almost repeat in about 18  
years 10.5 days and even in half period of 3339 tithis. So, with  
uncertainty of about 60 years, it is not possible to know as to which  
18 year period it refers to. Most laborius attaempt was by Oppolger  
whose canon of Eclipse was published in French in 1927. There was  
error of about 12 hours in calculation of eclipses since 600 BC. Thus,  
verdict of Airy was just an arrogant boast without patience or ability  
to calculate it. However, Janamejaya inscriptions contained dates in 5  
methods also. Actually, oldest calculation of long term eclipses is by  
Hemangada Thakkur of Mithila when he was in prison of Moghul emperor  
Akbar. He had no books for reference and might have remembered Surya-  
siddhanta or Makaranda sarani popular in that region. Sarani is  
difficult to remember-easy method is Vakya-karana. He calculated  
eclipses upto 2600 AD. I checked up the lunar eclipse on 31-12-2009.  
It had only 2 minutes error which is more that lifelong research work  
of Oppolger in 1927 (earlier work published later) or Jaan Meus in  
2005. Solar eclipse is uncertain-it is at different times at  
different places.  
Basis of Vakya-karana is formulas from 17-2-3102 BC Ujjain Midnight  
and Sri Hari has summarised the edited books of Dr. K.V. Sarma which I  
took help while writing commentary on Siddhanta Darpana. Sri Hari  
opines that the formula are accurate within 2 minutes-his articles of  
Vakyakarana on website may be seen. From the nature of errors for long  
past, it is not possible to arrive at epoch by back calculation only  
as assumed.  
Similarly, all the 5 elements of Tithis given in inscriptions dated  
27-11-3014 can not be calculated with certainty by any formula of  
NASA. These might be translation of old Patta or may be even false  
records for gaining land rights, but forging all versions of dates is  
impossible either for a traditional scholar or modern software. Even  
current year Panchanga is not so easy and there are errors in that  
changing tithis. Motives for falsehood can be attributed in all  
inscriptions of kings also-they may be propaganda for self praise. I  
am talking only of dates and possibility of back calculation if any-  
Arun  

î—“

