+++
title = "006 VKG"

+++
[[VKG	2010-10-05, 06:16:50 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/sHpVK35V-e4)]]



Pranaam  
  
As the debate rages about antiquity of languages and requests;  
moreover by western educated Indians and their colleagues of modern  
streams, we should look at some fundamental points.  
1. What does it prove?  
2. What is the relief, remedy or benefit for the proof of antiquity?  
3. Even if such relief/ belief is deemed to exist, is the effort  
(time/ money etc.) we collectively/ individually make; commensurate  
with its benefit?  
4. Although, the Abhaava (Non- Existence) can be only infered as it  
cannot be proved; Can the absence of verifiable evidence (by this  
contemporary generation) tantamount to negation of a belief/  
tradition?  
  
(These questions were also revolving in recent Rama Janmabhumi issue.  
How is that a bunch of mortals, similar to me and you, sitting on a  
bench (Courts)/ benches (Legislature/ Executive) validate or negate a  
tradition that is passed on from time immemorial)  
  
If that is a possibility, sanctioned by a altering constitution of a  
land; then similar actions by an Islamic/ Christian Legislative  
sanctions negating each other's traditions should also carry the same  
weight.  
  
Obviouslym, this results in total anarchy, as it is evident. Being  
oblivious to the fundamentals, does not bail out the proponents of  
such questionable actions, from their responsibility of well being of  
the society.  
  
5. In essence: Erroneous/ Unnecessary Time Lines for Traditions,  
Languages, Scripts (3,000/ 2,500/ 1,000 years) is beneficial? to whom?  
to what extent?  
  
If you cannot recall the names, forms/ shapes of your great great  
grand grand grand parents, can it be deemed that they do not exist at  
first place, due to absence of admissable evidence?  
  
Instead, can we direct our energies towards realisation/ propagation/  
preservation/ teaching the benefits of the wisdom among the societies  
we live; so that at least another person/ family/ cluster are  
influenced and drawn towards the harmonious pantheon of Dharma???  
  
Firmly Establishing the contemporary relevance and action in  
consosance of that thoughtshould be the epicentre of all the efforts -  
I belief. (If some inscriptions/ citations correlating the tradition  
and contemporary beliefs are found, we can certainly deal with them,  
but not afford to allocate unlimited jouls of energy in the debates of  
timelines.)  
  
Whatever is the essence of an inscription, should be focussed more.  
The Essence of Dharmam Chara & Satyam Vada are more important rather  
than when it is said, at which place etc. (Ofcourse, this is not say  
that contextual references are invalid).  
  
A candid/ sincere expression, that has been lingering in my mind,  
after seeing endless debates about antiquity in our forum. (Sorry, if  
this hurts the sentiments/ zeal/ enthusiasm of some members). Probably  
some more members may think alike.  
  
Regards  
Vamshi Krishna Ghanapaathi  
  
  
On Oct 4, 3:46pm, Dipak Bhattacharya \<[dbhattacharya200...@yahoo.com]()\>  
wrote:  

\> Dear Sir,  
\> I did not find the inscription, nor any reference to itin the link provided by Dr. Joshi. Is it possible to scan and upload it?  
\> I shall remain grateful.  
\> Best  
\> DB  
\>  

\> --- On Mon, 4/10/10, Arun \<[arunupadhya...@yahoo.in]()\> wrote:  



