+++
title = "034 S.Subrahmanya"

+++
[[S.Subrahmanya	2016-04-11, 11:34:40 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/TP-TEibsq7s)]]



  

Madhav Deshpande was an ardent collaborator with Michael Witzel in wanting to impose Eurocentric ideology in how  

Hindu traditions are represented in American textbooks during the California Textbook case.

He opposed the changes that the Hindu groups were suggesting.

It must also be noted that Madhav Deshpande now has multiple publications in Harvard Oriental Series

  

Madhav Deshpande is also useful to the Indological establishment network as they can use him as the "desi" face

in an otherwise wholly European (and white-American) Indological enterprise.

He is also useful in citing examples (however irrelevant) of 'natives behaving badly'  
(see
<http://list.indology.info/pipermail/indology_list.indology.info/2016-February/042844.html> )

and painting any indian challenge to eurocentric hegemony as being bunch of bigots.

  

If I remember correctly, many years ago, Madhav Deshpande himself had sent an email out on one of the indology related lists  

that he considers himself to be a "Western Indologist" - in the sense that he uses western methods for studying india

  

It must also be kept in mind that there is more scholarship coming out explaining that Indology is merely repackaged Protestant Theology  

For eg. See this book on German Indology - <http://www.amazon.in/The-Nay-Science-History-Indology/dp/0199931364>

One must also read the works of Prof.Balagangadhara and his students to understand how Europeans viewed (and still view) Indian traditions.

  

To emphasise - mere knowledge of Sanskrit , or being of Indian origin , does not make one a supporter of the Hindu/Dharmic traditions.

An Indian may be well versed in Sanskrit or any other Indian language but see India only through a 'eurocentric' mindset.  

Note how "Insider / Outsider" is explained in Rajiv's book TBFS. 

  

regards

S.Subrahmanya

  

On Friday, April 8, 2016 at 3:42:40 PM UTC+5:30, Nityanand Misra wrote:

> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > An example of his lack of serious scholarship (as well as enviable > trolling and abusive skills) of the author is [this > masterpiece](http://hindureview.com/2006/02/08/madhav-deshpande-amnesiac/), > where he cannot even fathom the extent of drastic changes which can > happen in a single generation in a family and writes trash about our > very respectable Prof. Madhav Deshpande Ji.  
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 

  

Prof. Paturi forwarded this link.

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > <http://hindureview.com/2006/01/26/gunga-din-comes-michigan-scholar-america-madhav-deshpande/>  
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

