+++
title = "002 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2018-10-23, 02:36:38 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/0SP-FhytodQ)]]



Namste:

  

Please read following stories:  

<http://wish4me.com/madhu-kathabh-ki-katha/>

Siddhivinayak siddhatek

<https://tinyurl.com/y879leww>

<https://tinyurl.com/yc4y5zwj>



My take on all pauraNika stories is to understand and recognize the "TAKE HOME MESSAGE" delivered through the illustration of stories, which could be useful in your own life.  

1. madhu-kaiTabha were born from the ears of viShNu.

  

2. They were disturbing the creative work performed by brahmha.

  

3. They became powerful because they had a boon that they have "icchaa-maraNa", meaning they will only die when they choose to die. This made them invincible.  

  

4. When no one including viShNau could not defeat them in battle, he invokes the deity of knowledge, that provides the real solution to eliminate madhu-kaiTabha. Here gaNesha Story about the Siddhateka temple provides interesting very light.  

  

Solution being to create a situation and make "madhu-kaiTabha" willing request for their own death.

  

5. Thus viShNu praises for their skill as most superior warriors and offers another boon.  

  

4."madhu-kaiTabha" state that they are not the "yaacaka" but "givers", hearing this viShaNu says then give me the boon by being killed at my hands.  

  

TAKE HOME MESSAGE:  

  

a. Solutions can always be found in the the situations that created the problem one has to make their own efforts to find that. Even viShNu was no exception to this fundamental principle.  

  

b. "madhu-kaiTabha" were born from viShNu's ears. suggesting this was nothing more than a demon of "HEAR-SAY".

  

 A good example of believing on "hear-say" is Rama abandons Sita after hearing doubts about her purity/chastity during her stay at RavaNa.

  

This is my simplistic interpretation about the story, hoe that make sense to some of the list members.

  

Rgds

  

Dr Yadu  

  

  

  

  



