+++
title = "002 Vidyasankar Sundaresan"

+++
[[Vidyasankar Sundaresan	2012-08-14, 06:44:29 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/fYpvZCr0R9w)]]



Dear Sri Krishna Shastry and others,  
  
Let me add the perspective of the father of a 3 year old child here.  
Having settled in the USA, my wife and I are keen that my daughter  
should grow up with a strong and instinctive feel for Tamil and  
Sanskrit, given that she is going to get totally acclimatized to  
American English when she starts going to school regularly. To that  
end, we insist on speaking to her in Tamil and that she responds  
likewise. We are also trying our best to teach her saMskRta, as much  
as possible, in as natural a way as possible, explaining to her, for  
example, why sItA is jAnakI, hanumAn is Anjaneya, bhIshma is gAngeya  
and so on.  
  
Now, if there is one thing we sorely miss, it is the availability of  
saMskRta books tailored for children of that age. Needless to say, for  
English, we have a vast choice of books, DVDs and other resources to  
educate our daughter. We have also got a set of nicely produced books  
with the Tamil alphabet, pictorial depictions of words from ammA to  
auvaiyAr and karumbu to vaLLUvar and on to simple stories with  
accompanying images. For saMskRta however, we have not been able to  
find anything similar that will hold a child's interest in a similar  
manner. I believe that if we wait for our children to grow up and go  
to school before introducing saMskRta to them in whatever form  
(example to rule or vice versa), the battle to increase awareness and  
knowledge of the language is already more than half-lost. We need to  
introduce it to kids in a gentle manner at a very early age. In  
today's world, where the visual image is extremely powerful and where  
a wide variety of images compete for attention, we need to use any and  
all possible tools to attract the imaginations of young minds and  
introduce them (along with their parents, in many cases) to saMskRta.  
May I suggest that the first step should be to produce books and  
electronic resources with well executed pictures, using colors and  
tones that hold the eyes of small children, starting with words like  
aja, agni, Amra, AkASa, ikshu, indirA etc? Perhaps the adults who  
instinctively tend to avoid saMskRta as being too difficult will also  
be won over as they use these resources along with their children and  
grandchildren!  
  
Vidyasankar  
  
On Aug 12, 1:00pm, krishna shastry \<[krishnashas...@hotmail.com]()\>  
wrote:  
\> Dear Scholars,Pl find time to read the attached article, it discusses one of the most important questions regarding Samskrit today.  

\> I pray for an extensive and full debate on this topic in this forum.  
\> Chamu Krishna Shastry  
\> 91-11-23533579/[9868113005](tel:(986)%20811-3005)  
\>  

\> Teaching Samskrit through Samskrit.doc  
\> 67KViewDownload  

