+++
title = "019 Roland Steiner"

+++
[[Roland Steiner	2020-01-12, 07:51:57 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/UyDN8w5M_cI)]]



\> So what is the pointer ?  
  
  

Very simple. Bijoy Misra had claimed:  

  
"Early quick translation recorded in MW and others do need revision  
being viewed from the scriptural context.  
Early translation was done for the missionaries to create a broad  

understanding compromising accuracy.."  
  
I replied that a large part of the entries in MW are actually  
translations of the meanings given in the Petersburg dictionaries,  
regardless of what Monier-Williams says in his preface. This is all  
well-known among Sankritists – or at least it should be – and becomes  
immediately apparent to anyone working with these three dictionaries  
over a prolonged period of time. So it is simply not true that "early  
quick translation" - "done for the missionaries to create a broad  
understanding compromising accuracy" - is "recorded in MW".  
  
By the way:  
  
\> Shabda kalpadruma  
  
Böhtlingk and Roth not only knew Rādhākānta's Śabdakalpadruma but  
explicitly used it (especially for unedited Indian dictionaries and  
their commentaries; in these cases, they use the siglum "ÇKDR"). They  
praise it as "a work which in many respects gives the greatest honour  
to the learned author" (p. VII of the preface to the 1st volume of the  
large Petersburg dictionary). Rādhākānta in turn intended to use the  
Petersburg Dictionary for the second edition of his Śabdakalpadruma.  
In a letter to the German lexicographers dated 17.5.1855 Rādhākānta  
wrote:  
  
"As a friend of mine intends availing himself of the aid of your Work,  
specially as regards the Vaidic Vocabulary, in the preparation, under  
my superintendence, of a second and more comprehensive Edition of the  
Śabdakalpadruma - I shall feel myself greatly obliged by your kindly  
sending me the subsequent parts of the Work and making arrangements to  
furnish me with the sheets as they come out from the Press per every  
Mail."  
  
Best,  
Roland Steiner  
  

