+++
title = "014 VKG"

+++
[[VKG	2010-08-06, 07:34:57 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/HrzWWGVWESk)]]



Pranaam!

It is quite relevant to discuss the term Baala - and and the  
jurisprudence of the set of rules governing Brahmacharya.

Let me clarify, why Praayaschitta is relevant in this context.

1\. Praayaschitta is to set the Mind, back on track (Dhaarmika Maarga)  
after a deviation. That is the objective, not physical/ social  
punishment/ abuse. Any penal code is just a deterrant mean, not an end  
itself.

2\. Many of the Praayaschittas, often involve Danda (Physical and  
Mental) alongwith some Rituals, to correct the meta Physical excesses,  
that have occured to the that individual. Objective again is to make  
him pure & chaste.

3\. Here, the jury is very important. This is called the Parishad.  
(Incidentally, that is also the name of this forum.) Qualification to  
become a member is clearly spelt out, in many texts.

4\. In many cases, magesterial powers (Both Judicial and Executive)  
were vested with the same person, with the objective to carry out the  
justice smoothly and swiftly. (Pros and cons of this system are not  
debated, as current day scenario separates executive from judiciary in  
many spheres.)

5\. Thus, the person/ jury have the responsibility to correct the  
personality disorder of the person, by convincing him/ her about the  
fault and to initiate corrective measure. If the mistake is too grave  
to be corrected or the tendency is too stubborn, then capital/ severe  
punishment was the alternative. (If remedy thru medicine is not  
possible, surgical amputation remains the alternative to save the  
other parts).

6\. Praayaschitta is often referred as an atonement/ repentence ritual  
initiated by that particular individual, or prodded by the family/  
society. Whatever is the case, Danda and Praayaschitta normally go on  
hand in hand, irrespective of the Pronouncer (Jury/ King/ Elder/  
Guru).

7\. As the ruler/ head of the state was not always available, jury at  
village/ town levels used to advise the punishment/ atonement. Failure  
to resolve and dissatisfaction on either part used to be referred to  
higher levels, finally adjudicated by the ruler, who was assisted by  
the galaxy of learned scholars. (Tricky issues used to take time, by  
calling for larger consultation.)

8\. Debating the term Baala. Important Criterion was suggested by the  
age old prudent system. This was both mental and physical maturity. 1.  
Praapta Vyavahaara and 2)Praapta Prajanana Sakti. To easily  
distinguish these two elements in a male (As physical examination is  
not an option), two general distinguishing marks are suggested.

9\. Age 16. (Praapte tu Shodase Varshe Putram Mitravat Aacharet); This  
was the mental and physical bench mark for adolescence. Romodgama  
(Body Hair). This was an important sign to indicate the attainment of  
vitality. By this age (in the 16th year from birth) Moola Adhyayana  
(Basic Studies) used to be completed and Go Daana Vrata(Shaving the  
Facial Hair for the first time, along with Hair on head) was  
stipulated.

Thus, the term Baala is very obvious by these many references. And the  
Age 16 is also an ideal age.

These concepts of lower age of 16 for maturity and the system of Jury  
are (Probably) cleverly adopted by the Americans (Settler Europeans  
especially british, apparently/ providentially influenced by the  
prevalent system of India).

But unfortunately, Indian Constitution Writers had overlooked this to  
to achieve the shorttime gains/ Challenges.  
Age 21 (18 now) to define maturity and  
Single Judge (Benches at only high court) to contain corruption by  
absolute power.

More thoughts are welcome.  
Regards  
VKG  
Vamshi Krishna Ghanapaathi, Mysore

  
On Aug 5, 11:31pm, sadasivamurty rani \<[ranisadasivamu...@yahoo.com]()\>  
wrote:



