+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2011-01-29, 17:26:38 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/ewuajwwBlFU)]]



Breaking India -- Western interventions in Dravidian and Dalit Faultlines (2011)  
by  
Rajiv Malhotra and Aravindan Neelakandan  
  
ISBN 978-81-910673-7-8, Amaryllis  
<http://www.breakingindia.com/>  
  
About the book  
  
India's integrity is being undermined by three global networks that have well-established operating bases inside India: (i) Islamic radicalism linked with Pakistan, (ii) Maoists and Marxist radicals supported by China via intermediaries such as Nepal, and (iii) Dravidian and Dalit identity separatism being fostered by the West in the name of human rights. This book focuses on the third: the role of U.S. and European churches, academics, think-tanks, foundations, government and human rights groups in fostering separation of the identities of Dravidian and Dalit communities from the rest of India. The book is the result of five years of research, and uses information obtained in the West about foreign funding of these Indian-based activities. The research tracked the money trails that start out claiming to be for “education,” "human rights," “empowerment training,” and “leadership training,” but end up in programs designed to produce angry youths who feel disenfranchised from Indian identity.  
  
The book reveals how outdated racial theories continue to provide academic frameworks and fuel the rhetoric that can trigger civil wars and genocides in developing countries. The Dravidian movement’s 200-year history has such origins. Its latest manifestation is the “Dravidian Christianity” movement that fabricates a political and cultural history to exploit old faultlines. The book explicitly names individuals and institutions, including prominent Western ones and their Indian affiliates. Its goal is to spark an honest debate on the extent to which human rights and other “empowerment” projects are cover-ups for these nefarious activities.   
  
Introduction  
  
This book has emerged as a result of several experiences that have deeply influenced my research and scholarship over the past decade. In the 1990s, an African-American scholar at Princeton University casually told me that he had returned from a trip to India, where he was working with the ‘Afro-Dalit Project’. I learnt that this USoperated and -financed project frames inter-jati/varna interactions and the Dalit movement using American cultural and historical lenses. The Afro-Dalit project purports to paint Dalits as the ‘Blacks’ of India and non-Dalits as India’s ‘Whites’. The history of American racism, slavery and Black/White relations is thus superimposed onto Indian society.  
  
While modern caste structures and inter-relationships have included long periods of prejudice toward Dalits, the Dalit experience bears little resemblance to the African slave experience of America. But taking its cue from the American experience, the Afro-Dalit project attempts to empower Dalits by casting them as victims at the hands of a different race.  
  
Separately, I had been studying and writing about the ‘Aryans’, as to who they were, and whether the origin of Sanskrit and Vedas was an import by ‘invaders’ or indigenous to India. In this context, I sponsored numerous archeological, linguistic and historical conferences and book projects, in order to get deeper into the discourse. This led me to research the colonial-era construction of the Dravidian identity, which did not exist prior to the nineteenth century and was fabricated as an identity in opposition to the Aryans. Its survival depends upon belief in the theory of foreign Aryans and their misdeeds.  
  
I had also been researching the US Church’s funding of activities in India, such as the popularly advertised campaigns to ‘save’ poor children by feeding, clothing and educating them. In fact, when I was in my twenties living in the US, I sponsored one such child in South India. However, during trips to India, I often felt that the funds collected were being used not so much for the purposes indicated to sponsors, but for indoctrination and conversion activities.  
  
Additionally, I have been involved in numerous debates in the US with think-tanks, independent scholars, human rights groups and academics, specifically on their treatment of Indian society as a sort of scourge that the west had to ‘civilize’. I coined the phrase ‘caste, cows and curry’ to represent the exotic and sensational portrayals of India’s social and economic problems and their interpretation these as ‘human rights’ issues.  
  
I decided to track the major organizations involved in promulgating these various theories, as well as those spearheading political pressure, and eventually the prosecution of India on the grounds of human rights violations. My research included following the money trail by using the provisions of financial disclosure in the US, studying the promotional materials given out by most such organizations, and monitoring their conferences, workshops and publications. I investigated the individuals behind such activities and their institutional affiliations.  
  
What I found out should sound the alarm bell for every Indian concerned about our national integrity. India is the prime target of a huge enterprise—a ‘network’ of organizations, individuals and churches—that seems intensely devoted to the task of creating a separatist identity, history and even religion for the vulnerable sections of India. This nexus of players includes not only church groups, government bodies and related organizations, but also private thinktanks and academics. On the surface they appear to be separate and isolated from one another, but in fact, as I found, their activities are well coordinated and well funded from the US and Europe. I was impressed by the degree of interlocking and cooperation among these entities. Their resolutions, position papers and strategies are well articulated, and beneath the veneer of helping the downtrodden, there seem to be objectives that would be inimical to India’s unity and sovereignty.  
  
A few Indians from the communities being ‘empowered’ were in top positions in these Western organizations, and the whole enterprise was initially conceived, funded and strategically managed by Westerners. However, there are now a growing number of Indian individuals and NGOs who have become co-opted by them, and receive funding and mentorship from the West. The south Asian studies in the US and European universities invite many such ‘activists’ regularly and give them prominence. The same organizations had also been inviting and giving intellectual support to Khalistanis, Kashmir militants, Maoists, and other subversive elements in India. So I began to wonder whether the campaigns to mobilize Dalits, Dravidians and other minorities in India were somehow part of the foreign policy of certain Western countries, if not openly then at least as an option kept in reserve. I am unaware of any other major country in which such large-scale processes prevail without monitoring or concern by the local authorities. No wonder so much has to be spent in India after such a separatist identity gets weaponized into all out militancy or political fragmentation.   
  
The link between academic manipulations and subsequent violence is also evident in Sri Lanka, where manufactured divisiveness caused one of the bloodiest civil wars. The same also happened in Africa where foreign-engineered identity conflicts led to one of the worst ethnic genocides ever in the world.   
  
About three years ago, my research and data had become considerable. Moreover, many Indians are simply unaware of the subversive forces at work against their country, and I felt that it ought to be organized for wider dissemination and debate. I started working with Aravindan Neelakandan, based in Tamil Nadu, to complement my foreign data with his access to the ground reality in India’s backwaters.  
  
This book looks at the historical origins of both the Dravidian movement and Dalit identity, as well as the current players involved in shaping these separatist identities. It includes an analysis of the individuals and institutions involved and their motivations, activities, and desired endgame. While many are located in the US and the European Union, there are an increasing number in India too, the latter often functioning like the local branch offices of these foreign entities.  
  
The goal of this book is not to sensationalize or predict any outcomes. Rather, it is to expand the debate about India and its future.   
  
Much is being written about India’s rise in economic terms and its implications to India’s overall clout. But not enough is written on what can go wrong given the rapidly expanding programs exposed in this book and the stress they put on India’s faultlines. My hope is that this book fills this gap to some extent.  
  
Rajiv Malhotra  
Princeton, USA  
January 2011  
  
Contents  
  
Introduction xi  
1. Superpower or Balkanized War Zone? 1  
2. Overview of European Invention of Races 8  
Western Academic Constructions Lead to Violence 8  
3. Inventing the Aryan Race 12  
Overview of Indian Impact on Europe:   
  
From Renaissance to Racism 15  
Herder’s Romanticism 18  
Karl Wilhelm Friedrich Schlegel (1772–1829) 19  
‘Arya’ Becomes a Race in Europe 22  
Ernest Renan and the Aryan Christ 23  
Friedrich Max Müller 26  
Adolphe Pictet 27  
Rudolph Friedrich Grau 28  
Gobineau and Race Science 29  
Aryan Theorists and Eugenics 31  
Chamberlain: Aryan-Christian Racism 32  
Nazis and After 34  
Blaming the Indian Civilization 35  
4. Imperial Evangelism Shapes Indian Ethnology 37  
Biblical Theory of Race and the Myth of Ham 39  
William Jones Maps Indians onto Biblical Ethnology 42  
One Hundred Years of British Indological Institutions 48  
5. Lord Risley Morphs Jati-Varna into Race 51  
Building on Max Müller’s Work 52  
Risley’s Race Science 54  
Risley Freezes the Castes 56  
Ambedkar Demolishes Nasal Index Racism 60  
6. Inventing the ‘Dravidian’ Race 61  
Hodgson Invents ‘Tamulian’ 63  
Caldwell: Transforming Linguistics into Ethnology 64  
A Conspiracy Theory is Born: Cunning Aryan  
Brahmins Exploited Innocent Dravidians 66  
De-Indianizing the Tamil Traditions 67  
7. Dravidian Racism and Sri Lanka 79  
Outdated Geology Mixes with Theosophical Fantasy 81  
Lemurian Origins Linkup with Bishop Caldwell 83  
Theosophy – Buddhism Uses Aryans to  
Counter Evangelism 85  
Clash of Colonial Constructs: Aryan-Buddhist-Sinhalese  
vs. Dravidian-Saivite-Tamil 86  
8. Digesting Hinduism into ‘Dravidian’ Christianity 88  
The Myth of St Thomas 89  
Evangelism and the Dravidian Movement 91  
Christianizing Hindu Popular Culture 111  
9. Propagation of ‘Dravidian’ Christianity 125  
2000: Seminar on ‘Dravidian Religion to  
Eradicate Casteism’ 127  
2001: India Declared the Mother of  
International Racism 127  
2004: ‘India is a Dravidian Christian Nation,  
and Christians Made Sanskrit’ 129  
2005: New York Conference on Re-imagining Hinduism as St Thomas Dravidian Christianity 129  
2006: Dravidian Christianity Becomes an International Movement 135  
2007: Second International Conference on the History of Early Christianity in India 139  
2008: First International Conference on the Religion of Tamils 142  
Christian-Dravidianism vs Modern Archeology 148  
Assessing the Robustness of the Thomas Myth 149  
Dravidian Spirituality as Interim Stage for Christianizing 150  
10. Dravidian Academic-Activist Network Outside India 154  
Oxford-Yale Origins of the Dravidian Linguistic Canon 157  
Academic Discourse Drives Indian Politics: Annadurai 160  
SARVA Project and Identity Politics 162  
Academic Support for Tamil Separatist Conferences 166  
The Berkeley Tamil Chair 167  
Europe-based Tamil Studies 170  
11. Western Discourse on India’s Fragments 173  
Deconstructing India Systematically 177  
Atrocity Literature as a Genre 182  
Atrocity Literature Feeds India’s Fragmentation 185  
Indian Minorities Serving the Global Majorities 189  
Identity Faultlines for Western Intervention 193  
12. The Afro-Dalit Movement 196  
Aryan/Dravidian and Hutu/Tutsi Parallels 197  
American History Defines the Afro-Dravidian Movement 200  
Western Government-Church Axis influences Afro-Dravidian-Dalit 207  
Ramayana interpreted as a Racist Epic 209  
13. India: A Neo-Con Frontier 212  
Corporate Multinationals to Convert Hindus 213  
Dalit Activism by the American Christian Right 220  
Right-wing Think-tanks and Policy Centers 234  
Sustained and Biased Perceptions 240  
14. India: A Left-wing Frontier 247  
Example of Left-Right Collaboration in Washington 249  
US-based Academic Deconstruction of India 251  
Islamic Tint in the Secular Lens 266  
15. The US Government’s Direct Involvement 268  
International Religious Freedom Act 268  
US Commission on International Religious Freedom 271  
Pew Trust Repackages and Spreads: ‘India is Next Only to Iraq’ 283  
US Government Agency for International Development (USAID) 285  
Obama and US Foreign Evangelism 287  
16. British Intervention in Present-day India 297  
Anti-India Axis in the UK 299  
17. Continental European Interventions 307  
Affiliates of Dalit Dissent in India 316  
Network of Academic Dalit Studies 321  
Individual Scholars Propagating Dalit Separatism 327  
18. India’s Christian Umma 334  
US-based Expansion of Indian Christianity 337  
Christian Media 356  
Intelligence-gathering Operations 363  
Effects on the Ground 370  
19. India in the Clash of Civilizations 377  
The Cover Map 378  
Maoist Red Corridor Through India 380  
Nagaland Model in Nepal and India’s Red Corridor 381  
Islamic Slice of Dravidistan 394  
Tamil Nadu 397  
Kerala 400  
Abdul Nasser Madhani, Godfather of south Indian Jihad 401  
Tamil Nadu–Kerala Jihad Nexus 404  
Madhani Released and Jihad Outsourced to Kerala 405  
Karnataka 407  
New Developments in 2010 411  
Appendices 423  
Appendix A: A Short History of Racism from the  
Nasal Index to the Y-Chromosome 425  
Appendix B: Ancient Tamil Religion in Sangam Literature 431  
Appendix C: Parallel Developments in Africa 438  
Appendix D: Thomas Hoax on Native Americans 449  
Appendix E: Papers Presented at New York Conference 2005 451  
Appendix F: Case of the Disposable Epigraphist 459  
Appendix G: Monitoring Foreign Funds 463  
Appendix H: Lutheran World Federation Targets India 467  
Endnotes 476  
Glossary 551  
Bibliography 560  
Index of Schematic Diagrams and Figures 621  
Acknowledgments 625  
Index 626  
  

  
The Authors  
  
Rajiv Malhotra  
  
Rajiv Malhotra is a public intellectual on current affairs, world religions and cross-cultural encounters between East and West. His career has spanned the corporate world as a senior executive, strategic consultant and successful entrepreneur in the information technology and media industries. His Infinity Foundation, seeks to foster a better global understanding of Indian civilization. Rajiv's work argues that the dharma offers a complex and open framework for a genuine dialogue among diverse peoples, rather then a zero sum game. He shows the limitations of globalization when it is a parochial imposition of Western paradigms. He is well known as a speaker and writer for a wide audience and is frequently interviewed and invited to deliver keynote addresses. He serves on the Board of Governors of the India Studies program at the University of Massachusetts, and served as a Chairman for the Asian Studies Education Committee of the State of New Jersey.  
Aravindan Neelakandan  
  
Aravindan Neelakandan has worked for the past decade with an NGO in Tamil Nadu serving marginalized rural communities in sustainable agriculture. He was awarded a junior research fellowship in cultural economics by the India's Ministry of Tourism to research the economic potentials of the neglected ruins in Kanyakumari district, in southern Tamil Nadu. These experiences provided him with in-depth knowledge of the history and sociology of Tamil people. He is also a popular science writer in Tamil and a columnist with UPI-Asia, a leading news portal. He is part of the editorial team of highly popular Tamil web portal [www.tamilhindu.com](http://www.tamilhindu.com).  

