+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-10-20, 06:49:25 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/DfzqqtzwzM4)]]



BUDDHIST MEDICINE IN MEDIEVAL CHINA:DISEASE, HEALING, AND THE BODYIN CROSSCULTURAL TRANSLATION(SECOND TO EIGHTH CENTURIES C.E.)

  

By

C. Pierce Salguero

  

A dissertation submitted to Johns Hopkins University in conformitywith the requirements for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy (March 2010)

  

Abstract:  
  
This dissertation is a study of the role of literary and cultural translation in the transmission and reception of Buddhist medicine in medieval China between the second and eighth centuries. This dissertation brings to light the diversity of medical material in the Chinese Tripitaka, analyzes the central metaphors and discourses in this corpus, and examines how these foreign medical ideas were understood in their historical context. I employ methodologies from Translation Studies to reconcile the study of the transregional exchange of linguistic and cultural repertoires with the agency of individual historical authors as they retooled and adapted foreign knowledge to forward contemporary social strategies. I utilize this theoretical framework to analyze how Indian medical doctrines influenced Chinese Buddhist discourses and practices, while also emphasizing the importance of disease, healing, and the body as sites of crosscultural negotiation.  
  
Chapter 1 introduces the transmission of Buddhist medicine to China in the context of transregional currents of crosscultural religious and medical exchange. Chapter 2 outlines the theoretical approach of this dissertation, situating the translation of Buddhist medical doctrines within the context of indigenous Chinese cultural repertoires and the local religiomedical marketplace. Chapters 3 and 4 introduce the major metaphors at the foundation of Buddhist medical discourses, emphasizing the translation tactics and strategies mobilized in rendering these in the Chinese language. Chapter 5 focuses on the work of one sixth-century hagiographer, highlighting the role of healing narratives in the Buddhist proselytism. Chapter 6 looks at the strategies of cultural translation employed by authors of a range of indigenous Chinese Buddhist compositions between the sixth and eighth centuries, identifying connections between individual translators treatments of Buddhist medicine and their social political, and personal contexts. A brief conclusion argues that a new approach prioritizing the role of translation in the dynamics of crosscultural exchange allows scholars to jettison the anachronistic categories of 'religion' and 'science' and move toward a greater appreciation of the integration of Buddhism and medicine in medieval China...

  

Conclusion

  

...

This dissertation has sought a new way to approach the Chinese reception of Buddhist medical doctrines by jettisoning the religion vs. science dichotomyand focusing instead on how medical knowledge functioned in contemporary discourses. Working in teams and individually, individual authors grappledwith understanding incoming Buddhist doctrines and with deciding how to reconstruct these in Chinese in comprehensible and meaningful ways. Far frombeing “unconcerned” about medicine, the translators of Buddhist sutras and the rewriters that came after them took up disease, healing, and the body frequently in their texts in pursuit of specific agendas and concrete social, political, and economic goals. Sometimes, translators employed foreignizing strategies, adhering closely to Indian source texts using tactics like transliteration, calques, and formally equivalent language. At other times, they called upon domesticating strategies, moving their texts in the direction of the target cultural and linguistic vocabulary. Often, they employed both strategies in order to balance an emphasis on Buddhism’s novelty with the need to fit into contemporary religiomedical discourses. Medicine was among the chief means by which Buddhism argued for its compatibility with Chinese cultural expectations, but it also was used as a site of boundary-building to differentiate the sangha from other contemporary groups. Buddhist medical knowledge thus was translated in a variety of ways that both reinforced and challenged classical Chinese models.

  

In my analysis of these translation decisions, I have steered a middle course between emphasis on the transmission and influence of Indian cultural elements on the one hand, and the agency and social performances of individual historical writers on the other. I have argued that attention to both the prevailing cultural-linguistic repertoires in source and target cultures, as well as the social, political, and idiosyncratic historical contexts of the individual translators involved allows for the integration of two approaches to history that have too often stood at odds with one another, and for a richer understanding of the interplay between language and social realities. I close with the assertion that, in light of the conclusions of this dissertation, we can no longer continue to talk about either the transmission of Buddhist medicine or its influence in China without considering the range of textual practices that went into the translation, reception, and continual reconstruction of this tradition, or the role of specific historical authors in these processes. In the final analysis, such a multifaceted approach to literary and cultural translation is indispensable if we are to see crosscultural exchange not as the predetermined collision or clash of cultures, but as a dynamic and historically specific process full of potential and human agency. If the last few decades of the study of the history of medicine have taught us anything, it is that knowledge about disease, healing, and the body are always inextricably interwoven with the social, economic, political, and personal histories of the people involved in its production and consumption. Buddhist medicine—whatever we may wish to designate by this term—is surely no different.

  

<http://www.jivaka.net/Salguero%20Dissertation.pdf>

