+++
title = "000 rniyengar"

+++
[[rniyengar	2010-08-30, 13:29:47 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/0UBqplvqM-4)]]



Varaha mihira in his Brihatsamhita refers to Parasara tantra in some  
places. Utpala in his commentary gives lengthy quotations from  
Parasara in prose form. In the 12th century Adbhutasaagara of Ballala  
sena also we find Parasara’s prose text quoted extensively. I have  
studied the above two texts to bring out some aspects of pre-  
siddhantic astronomy as per the Parasara-tantra (prose text) and its  
umbilical relation with Vedic literature. But much more work remains  
to be done. Pingree in his monumental Census of manuscripts on exact  
sciences in Sanskrit lists several works attributed to Parashara. The  
popular Brihatparashara Hora has no connection with the above Tantra.  
There is a Dharma-sastra (smriti) in print called Parashara Samhita,  
but with no astronomical statements. There is a Parashara siddhanta  
(in verse) which may be connected to the older tantra or samhita of  
Parashara. Unfortunately, in the BORI- Pune manuscript library we have  
only the first chapter of this siddhanta. I am looking for  
manuscripts and printed texts that may contain reference to Parashara  
and his statements in prose form. I request scholars in this group to  
help me in locating texts other than the above two which contain  
Parashara’s statements. Related to the above is the statement by SB  
Roy in his "Date of  
Mahabharata Battle" published in 1976 by The Academic Press, Gurgaon.  
On pages 130-131 Roy says William Jones had access to Utpala’s  
commentary as a manuscript in which Parashara’s statements were  
accented like in a Vedic text. He refers to Jones’s paper “On Indian  
Chronology" in Asiatic Researches, Vol II (P 391 onwards). I have  
tried to get a copy of this article but without success. It is  
possible scholars in Kolkata may be in a position to verify the claims  
of Roy and Xerox the paper of W.Jones. I will bear the expenses  
involved.  
  
Namo Vidvadbhyah.  
  
RN Iyengar

