+++
title = "001 Arun"

+++
[[Arun	2010-08-31, 08:22:52 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/0UBqplvqM-4)]]



Iyengar ji has studied many astronomy texts very thoroughly. He must  
have seen a specific chapter-अथ पराशर मताध्यायः in chapter 2 of महा  
सिद्धांत by Aryabhata-2. Its first 2 verses indicate that there were 2  
prominent streams at start of Kali era-parashara and This (Arya) mata.  
The verses are quoted below-  
कलिसंज्ञे युगपादे पाराशर्य मतं प्रशस्तमतः । वक्ष्ये तदहं तन्मम  
मततुल्यं मध्यमान्यत्र ।1।  
एतत् सिद्धांतद्वयमीषद्याते कलौ यूगे जातम् । स्वस्थाने दृक्तुल्या अनेन  
खेटाः स्फुटाः कार्याः । 2।  
In this context, there was a lot of confusion by changing date of  
Aryabhatiya from 360 to 3600 Kali which does not fit the text. Had he  
been in 3600 Kali (499 AD), he would have used recent shaka like  
Vikrama (57 BC), Shalivahana (78 AD), kalchuri (248 AD) or valabhi-  
bhanga (319 AD) as base year. He did not ven know about Nanda-shaka  
(1634 BC)used by Kharavel inscription, Shudraka shaka (756 BC-Yallaya-  
Jyotisha darpana), Sriharsha shaka (456 AD-Albiruni) or Varahamihira  
shaka (2526 Yudhishthira shaka =612 BC, destruction of Nineve by  
Chahman of Medes in east of Sindhu, Brihatsamhita 13/3). Sri K Chandra  
Hari of ONGC has written in his study of Vakyakarana that it was based  
on Aryabhata method and was in use in Selucid period in west Asia, at  
least 800 years before the stated time of Aryabhata in 499 AD. Even  
the long term constants of Aryabhata are of Mahabharata period.  
Reference by Aryabhata himself indicate that he was following line of  
Svayambhuva Manu-called Arya-mata. The other Parashara mata has been  
stated in Vishnu purana which has been claimed as basis of Brahma-  
sphuta-siddhanta by Brahma-gupta. Only 5400 of 18000 verses of Vishnu  
purana are available. Actually Vishnu-dharmottara purana contains most  
details of siddhanta jyotisha. The teacher of astronomy in Vishnu  
purana is Maitreya, i.e. follower of Sun, i.e. Vivasvan, father of  
Vaivasvat Manu, original author of Surya siddhanta. Then there is a  
question-what is pre-siddhantic astronomy-it should be prior to  
Vavasvat Manu or if we take Aryabhata, it is prior to Svayambhuva  
Manu. Except the writings of astronomers themselves, we have no other  
basis of arbitrary conjectures. There is another fallacy about  
classifications Vedanga and Jaina Jyotisha. Vedanga jyotish text  
available now is merely a calculation manual of luni-solar calendar.  
It does not explain astronomical meaning of Vedas as an anga of Veda.  
Descriptions of Lokas are in Bhuvana-kosha of Puranas. Their unis are  
explained in Jaina jyotish whose defintions are in maitrayani and  
Kathaka samhitas. Even if we assume Jaina sect as opposit to Vedas,  
units of length, calender etc can not be different in same country.  
Actually they have followed Vedic calender and Puranic descriptions of  
Lokas.  
There is another Parashara Samhita-an ancient text in Tirupati which  
is a biogaphy of Hanuman written by Parashara in 72 chapters. It has  
nothing to do with astronomy-Arun  



