+++
title = "000 Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma"

+++
[[Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma	2010-08-05, 18:26:29 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/cvTyyUtOzE4)]]



**"The synchronous activity arising from millions of brain cells is constantly fluctuating. This endogenous oscillation is thought to represent the ongoing neural processing corresponding to the structure and content of our changing mental states."** <http://brainresearchinstitute.org/research/tutorial/BrainwaveTutorialv14.pdf>**  
This is the golden door-step or the window  
to the Rishi-comprehension of physical   
as distinct and different from the mental  
domain and dimensions.  
देहद्रष्टा देहाद्भिन्न: यथा घटद्रष्टा घटाद्भिन्न :is no more a postulate  
or hypothesis. It can be established through electronic screening to an extant.  
"An piece of music can be appreciated as a whole and also on the level of individual instruments that contribute that wholeness. Similarly, any complex wave pattern (music, brainwaves, etc) can be broken down or decomposed into numerous specific, more elementary component waves of specific frequency and phase. Therefore, what is measured in coherence calculation is the phase stability of a particular frequency component."  
  
**<http://www.energy-healingarts.com/attain.htm>**  
Study the chart given carefully.  
"In general, the highly coherent brainwaves indicate increased brain orderliness which future research is very likely to significantly correlate with improvements in all aspects of mind-body health, like cardiovascular health, mental health, longevity, etc."  
"Total brain function can be understood in terms of the co-existence of Self-Referral and Object-Referral functioning."देहद्रष्टा देहाद्भिन्न:**.  
**  
प्रणाम:  
**  
--  
Aangirasa/Dr.S.Ramakrishna Sharma. M.A.,Ph.D.(Eng.Lit.),Ph.D.(Sanskrit.).  

