+++
title = "001 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2012-03-30, 09:25:32 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/S5tJB3si-dU)]]



Mr.Subrahmanyam,



I am sorry to see your posting about Sri Rangapriya Swamiji. He was a Seer, Scholar par excellence, a rarity today. Being at Delhi, I missed him. Physically he was ailing for the last few years, severely. Yet mentally, he was as astute as ever, such that no one would ever know about the severity of ailments by mere sight.



Just as I was typing this posting, I received a telephonic call from my house telling me of the attainment of mahasamadhi by the Seer, and the rituals will be held today. It is a month ago that I met him last, before I left for Delhi. He laughed loudly on seeing me. He understood what was on my mind, though I had not expressed anything. Somehow, I had felt a doubt whether I would be able to see him again. He saw thro my mind and had a hearty laugh. Those present said that it was a long time since he had had such a loud laugh. When I asked him 'May I know why the Bhagawan is laughing at me?', he answered me with a smile 'your message has reached the Bhagawan'.



His exit creates a great void in the world of spiritualist scholars. It is a personal loss to me.



s.r.krishna murthy.  
  





>   
>   
> subrahmanian.v  
> > --  
> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
> to subscribe go to the link below and put a request  
> <https://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat/subscribe>  
> To unsubscribe from this group, send email to  
> [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]()  

  

