+++
title = "000 Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma"

+++
[[Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma	2010-06-26, 05:23:33 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/XDDGsx98WIU)]]



हरि: ॐ  
नमस्ते।  
Dear All,  
I would like to share my search results with you regarding  
books and publications on **Veda Vidya** so that it may kindle  
interest in presenting papers on areas of interest.  
  

<http://www.nbcindia.com/Descriptions.asp?6v6yr_vq=FJIMKMD&Book=Decoding-Rig-Veda-For-the-Knowledge-of-Science>  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  

### Book Description

### Decoding Rig-Veda: For the Knowledge of Science 

  
This book is dedicated to those who would like to decode the hymns of Rig-Veda and understand the scientific principles hidden. The Rishis, **in a state of super-consciousness, observed the laws of nature and its underlying scientific principles.** They presented the observations in hymns with **simple words but deep in meaning.** \_\_\_ Radhika Raman Prasad Sinha's quest for **scientific meaning behind rituals and customs** eventually led him to an in-depth study of the ancient Indian scriptures, particularly the Vedas. \_\_\_ Radhika Raman Prasad Sinha was born on May 26, 1937, at old Patna City in the vicinity of Patna Sahib Gurudwara in the Bihar state, India. The eldest son of Sri. Gorakh Prasad and Smt. Umraoti Devi, he spent his childhood at ancestral villages with maternal and paternal grandparents and extended family.  
  

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

### Book Details

-   Book -   Decoding Rig-Veda: For the Knowledge of Science

&nbsp;

-   Authors -   Radhika Raman Prasad Sinha,Amitabh Divakar,Binita Sinha-Sharma

&nbsp;

-   Publisher -   Robertson Publishing

&nbsp;

-   ISBN-10 -   1935125222

&nbsp;

-   ISBN-13 -   9781935125228

&nbsp;

-   Edition -   Paperback 01/2009

&nbsp;

-   Total Pages -   **160**

&nbsp;

-   Language -   English

&nbsp;

-   Dimension -   8.5 x 5.5 x 0.37 inches

\_\_\_\_\_List Price : **Rs. 672**\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
Highlights are mine.  
Such decoding is not possible without being in **a state of super-consciousness.**  
The observation **"simple words but deep in meaning, "and **"quest for **scientific meaning behind rituals and customs"** evince our curiosity to read this book. Is it not?  
  
प्रणाम:  
  
  
  
--  
Aangirasa/Dr.S.Ramakrishna Sharma. M.A.,Ph.D.(Eng.Lit.),Ph.D.(Sanskrit.).  

