+++
title = "000 vaidikagramanirman"

+++
[[vaidikagramanirman	2009-02-18, 08:13:16 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/orAX7Ci2KFE)]]



namasthe, I wonder if anybody remembers the movie "Gods must be crazy"  
- A Coca Cola bottle falls on the head of a native in pygmyland -  
thrown by a drunken pilot. Then the pygmies do everything possibe to  
the sacred bottle trying to find different uses including - making  
rotis" using as whistle making it object of worship... and what not.  
Soon there is strife about who gets more from the "empty bottle"...  
the strife is unbearable - and the person on whose head the bottle  
first lands takes the bottle and goes far far away from homeland...  
and throws the bottle away... I really wonder if TTD etc and the  
reporters have a head in the first place leave alone brains in it....  
next they will want to export their grandmothers  
  
  
‘Sanskrit can be exported to West’ Staff Reporter Rashtriya Sanskrit  
Vidyapeetha holds 12th convocation  
  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
Mere technological knowledge dubbed a ‘dangerous machine’Vidyapeetha  
may launch Sanskrit channel in association with TTD, IT Ministry  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
  
-Photo: K.V. Poornachandra Kumar  
  
Worthy honour: Yoga guru Swami Ramdev being conferred the title  
‘Mahamahopadhyaya’ by Janaki Ballabh Patnaik, Chancellor of Rashtriya  
Sanskrit Vidyapeetha, in Tirupati on Wednesday. Vice-Chancellor Hare  
Krishna Satapathy is also seen.  
TIRUPATI: Bogged down by spiritual stagnation, the western countries  
will get a breather with the “export of higher education” as envisaged  
by the UGC’s new Five-Year Plan document, said Ramaranjan Mukherjee,  
noted educationist and former Chancellor of Rashtriya Sanskrit  
Vidyapeetha here on Wednesday. While the West is ahead in terms of  
scientific and technological advancements, it is the component of  
Sanskrit learning that can be exported, he added.In his address at the  
12th convocation of the Vidyapeetha, he recalled the policy of  
National Education 1986, which had described the goal of education as  
production of a new generation burning in scientific insight and  
feeling pride in the nation’s rich cultural heritage. He urged the  
government to appoint spiritually-enlightened persons as ambassadors  
to promote the glory of India thought abroad.Mr. Mukherjee dubbed a  
young graduate, merely endowed with knowledge of technology, ‘a  
dangerous machine’ on prowl. “Only Sanskrit learning can induct  
responsiveness in our hearts and establish global fraternity, mutual  
tolerance and universal peace”.Chancellor Janaki Ballabh Patnaik  
appreciated the varsity for bagging the ‘Centre of Excellence’ status  
and A+ grade from NAAC. “Sanskrit knowledge is must to know one’s  
roots and cultural heritage”, he noted.He later conferred honoris  
causa ‘Mahamahopadhyaya’ title on Yoga guru Swami Ramdev, dramatist  
Shriniwas Rath, eminent polyglot Rangadhar Sarangi, champion of spoken  
Sanskrit movement R.N. Aralikatti and Vedic scholar Krishnamurthi  
Sastri. Titles conferred Similarly, the ‘Vacaspati’ title was  
conferred on civil servant-turned-poet Sitakant Mohapatra, President  
awardee author Mudumbai Narasimhacharya, V-C of Kerala Kalamandalam  
Deemed University for Art and Culture K.G. Paulose, editor of Tridandi  
Jeeyar’s Bhakti Nivedana magazine T.P. Sreeramachandracharyulu and  
researcher Kalyanbrata Chakraborty. Doctorates and gold medals were  
later presented .Vice-Chancellor Hare Krishna Satapathy hinted at the  
launch of an exclusive Sanskrit channel, in association with the TTD  
and the Ministry of Communication and IT.Printer friendly page  

