+++
title = "000 Dr ramanath"

+++
[[Dr ramanath	2011-01-31, 21:41:46 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/CHz7UJhWC3U)]]



All that we see, feel and hear is simply a compound of motion and  
matter. In the primal state, before this manifestation, where there  
was no motion, perfect balance, this Prakriti was indestructible,  
because decomposition comes only with limitation. According to  
Samkhya, atoms are not the primal state. This universe does not come  
out of atoms, they may be the secondary, or tertiary state.  
Gunanam paramam rUpam na dRisTipatham Richati  
dRiShTipatham tu yat praptam tat mayeva sa tucchakam.  
  
The Same position is with modern science they are not able to explain  
the real form of properties. They only interpret in another way.  
Electron, proton and neutron may be compared with guNas of Samkhya.  
The combination of these, all acts, matter or form comes into  
existence whose real nature is itself doubtful. Vedanta philosophy  
considers two things that form nature- i. Akasa, and ii. Prana. AkaSa  
is substance, or matter, infinitely fine. In addition, the other is  
PraNa. Whatever we see, or feel, or hear, as air or earth, or  
anything, is material. And everything is a form of this akaSa. It  
becomes finer and finer, or grosser and grosser, and it changes under  
the action of prana (universal energy). AkaSa is like the water, and  
everything else in the universe like blocks of ice, made out of that  
water and floating on it. And prana is the power which changes the  
akaSa into all these various forms. This body is the instrument made  
out of akaSa for the manifestation of prana in gross forms- as  
muscular motion, or walking, sitting, talking and so on. The fine body  
too is made of akaSa. The sequence is â€“ this gross body, beyond that  
is the fine body, and beyond that the Jiva(soul)- the real man.  

