+++
title = "000 Damodara Dasa"

+++
[[Damodara Dasa	2020-12-31, 10:35:09 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/OWMjs89AHh8)]]



Hare Krishna.  
  
Respected Vivaj-janas,  
  
I am in want of sanskrit literatures which specifically describe rain  
prediction techniques (besides jyotisa considerations) for upcoming  
for agriculture purposes.  
  
I have Krishi Parasara, Brihat-samhita and "Sanskrit Vangmaye Krishi  
Vijnanam." If you are in knowledge of other literatures it will be  
helpful.  
  
Also, even if such practical literatures are not in sanskrit but in  
hindi, bengali, telugu, etc. languages it is okay; it will be very  
helpful.  
  
I have come to know about "Khanar Vacana" in Bengali (Khana was  
Varaha-mihira's wife) but am not able to locate any copies of it. If  
someone can help me get this.  
  
Besides this, these texts are difficult to understand because of the  
technical terms used which I am not aware of how practically we  
implement in our location. For instance, Krishi Parasara says that in  
the Krishna paksa of Pausha Masa, if the sky is covered with dust  
(dhUlibhih) and western direction is endowed with vidyut-chhaTA then  
on the specific day of next year (belonging to this moment in pausha  
masa) will be heavy rains. I do not know how to identify when the sky  
is told to be covered by dust and what is vidyut-chhaTA. So it becomes  
not practical for me.  
  
Thus, if some scholar in this group either technically knows about  
these things or is in knowledge of someone who is knowledgeable, then  
I would request to put me contact with him so that I can take  
guidance.  
  
  
Thankyou,  
Hari Guru Vaisnava das,  
damodara das  
  
ps. This email I am writing because today the pausha masa has started  
and we have started a small experiment based on pausa-vrishti-laksana  
methodology mentioned in Krishi Parasara. If it succeeds then it will  
be very helpful for agriculture at our vedic village, as we are trying  
for local methods of rain prediction.  

