+++
title = "000 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2013-06-28, 00:57:53 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/ZTSVAHQVE98)]]



June 27, 2013



Thanks Shree Srinivasan Acharya,



I appreciate your reply.



My research is oriented towards finding historical information from Mahabharat. When I write on bvparishat, I am not looking from the point of view of Bhakti to Lord Krishna. So I do not discuss divinity of Krishna.



The purpose of my question was different. Here it is---Aabhiras attacked relatives of Krishna. This happened 3000 BC. Were there Aaabhiras in the Gujarata region around 3000 BC? Here we assumed Krishna's people ran to the direction of Gujarat due to fear of Jarasandha. Gujarat is very recent name, What was the name of that region in 3000 BC as described in Mahabharat? If you have information or anybody else, please kindly present here. Thanks. N.R.Joshi

  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: Srinivasan Acharya \<[srinivas...@gmail.com]()\>  
To: [skbhatt...@gmail.com](), [gira...@juno.com]()  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Thousands of powerful sons of Shree Krishna  
Date: Wed, 26 Jun 2013 10:27:49 +0530  
  

Dear Sirs,



Sirs, few verses (heard but not able to remember) explain that after the departure of Sri Krishna, Arjuna was not able to protect Krishna's people because it was Krishna who had been empowering Arjuna throughout.



However, after the war Krishna enjoined Arjuna to move away from the chariot before Krishna was to. Later to the Krishna's move the chariot was burnt to ashes, due to the power of Astras, that were aimed at Arjuna, Krishna or the chariot, in the war by other supremos. This instance clearly explains that how Arjuna was empowered throughout. Also the final verse of Gita "yatra yogeshvara krishnah".



In addition, few verses "samarabdham kaliyugam yada duryodhano'patat" and other texts explains that the calculation of AD was after 3000 years of the war.



It is archaic now to use "BC (Before Christ) and AD (anno Dommini)". Nowadays, BCE instead of (BC) and CE is instead of AD are accepted and used across world.



  
  

On Tue, Jun 25, 2013 at 10:53 PM, sunil bhattacharjya \<[skbhatt...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> > 
> > 
> > Namaste,  
>   
> > 
> > Please consider the age of Arjuna at that time. He was 125 years old. > Do you expect him to be able to fight the Aabhiras even at that age > and that too when his sarathi Krishna was not around. Thanks. >
> 
> > Sunil KB >
> 
> > 
> >   
>   
> > 
> > On Mon, Jun 24, 2013 at 4:35 PM, N.R.Joshi \<[gira...@juno.com]()\> > wrote:  
> > > 
> > > > JUne 24, 2013 > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Respected Scholars, Namaskar! > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Please correct me if my account is wrong. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Krishna's son Pradyumna was killed in front of his eyes during > > internal fight among Yadavas as the curse of Gaandhari and curse > > received by Saamba started manifesting. Many Yadavas killed each > > other after drinking heavily. Krishna got disgusted and left. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Message was sent to Hastinapur to Arjun to come rescue wives and > > relatives of Krishna. Arjun could not defend wives of Krishna in > > front of attack by Aabhiras. Some of the wives were abducted by > > Aabhiras. In the known history during the period 300 BC to 300 AD > > there were Aabhiras in the Gujarat side of the subcontinent. Now the > > story of Krishna is 3000 year old. Were there Aabhiras in the > > western India even at the time of Krishna and his Dvaraka? How come > > so powerful Pandavas could not control Aabhiras when they were in > > power in Hastinapur assuming that due to Kaala Mahimaa, Arjun lost > > his power to fight with Aabhiras and protect all wives of Krishna. I > > need true information and not glorified version of all powerful > > Arjun. Thanks. N.R.Joshi > > > > 
> > > >   
> >   
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
> > [**Assurance&#174 Wireless**  
> > See If You Qualify for a Free Phone 250 Free Minutes & 250 Free > > Texts!  
> > ](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/51c8d7e9553157e851b3st03vuc)[AssuranceWireless.com](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/51c8d7e9553157e851b3st03vuc) > > > > 
> > > > --  
> > निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
> > ---  
> > You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> > To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, > > send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> > To post to this group, send email to > > [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> > Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
> > For more options, visit > > <https://groups.google.com/groups/opt_out>.  
> >   
> >   
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > --  
> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
> ---  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/groups/opt_out>.  
>   
>   

  
  



--  

ॐ तत् सत् - नमांसि

  
Thanks and Regards,  
Srinivasan Acharya

Manipal (Karnataka)

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[Fast, Secure, NetZero 4G Mobile Broadband. Try it.](http://www.netzero.net/?refcd=NZINTISP0512T4GOUT2)

