+++
title = "007 Dr. T. Ganesan"

+++
[[Dr. T. Ganesan	2014-07-08, 15:37:12 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/eLv33W3YLV4)]]



Dear Sri Sadasiva Murty,  
Yes. It is possible. But the actual dating of the Matha can be done with inscriptional records which are definitive to a large extent.  
In the present case are there any such records to show that Sri Vidyaranya was the founder ?  
  
For, even in the case of the actual Sringeri Matha considered to have been founded (started ?) by Vidyaranya , I think, there are not clear and strong records to establish the point.  
On the contrary, there are clear and strong inscriptional evidences to prove that the earlier tradition (Sampradaaya) of the Vidyasankara temple and the Matha belonged to the Kalamukha-s, a sub-sect of the once widely prevalent Pasupata tradition. For, this Kalamukha tradition was very wide spread and active in those regions from 11th to 14th centuries.  
  
As I had written in one of my early postings in this group, the wide spread popularity and network of Saiva Matha-s (Golaki and Amardaka, to name 2 very important ones) through out the length and breadth of our Bharatadesa is undisputable as there are hundreds of inscriptions mainly in Sanskrit and also in various regional languages from the 6th century (of which only a part has been published and studied); what is more, apart from these Saiva Matha-s and the Pasupata Matha-s to a lesser extent, no other Sampradaaya possess such a huge inscriptional data.  
  
Ganesan

  
  
  
  
On 08-07-2014 14:55, 'sadasivamurty rani' via भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत् wrote:  



