+++
title = "013 Dr. T. Ganesan"

+++
[[Dr. T. Ganesan	2014-07-09, 10:55:16 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/eLv33W3YLV4)]]



  
Just because some vaishNava sculptures and motifs are found in a Siva temple it does not make the temple to be an Advaita VedAnta one !!  
For,  

1.  It is common knowledge that Advaita VedAnta does not prescribe
    temple construction/temple worship; nor such an act is part of its
    spiritual practices by any stretch of theory or imagination. 2.  No text of authority is found in the Advaita vedAnta tradition that
    deals with this aspect even remotely. As I had said in connection
    with an earlier thread in this same forum, Advaita VedAnta
    saMnyAsI-s are either ParivrAjaka-s or KuTIcaka-s or BahUdaka-s
    which fundamentally means that a strict Advaita vedAnta monk is
    supposed not to stay at a particular place for more than a night or
    two. This prescription completely rules out even any constructed
    MaTha for an advaita vedAnta saMnyAsI, and absolutely no temple
    under his management. One should not confuse the case of a Siva
    temple with some VaishNava motifs with the smArta panchadevopAsana
    or the panchAyatana worship. It is purely a domestic
    --gRhya--practice and it has nothing to do with the case in hand.
    For, a temple--its construction and worship--are altogether in a
    different status and purpose. The panchAyatana worship cannot be
    extended to a temple !!! As I had noted a few months back, it is
    also a fact that *advaita vedAnta tradition does not prescribe for
    the saMnyAsI-s any formal worship of any form of God* *other than
    the PraNavopAsanA*.  
3.  If scholars find any text belonging to the advaita vedAnta
    tradition that prescribes construction/management of a maTha or a
    temple which is *inclusive, exhibiting equal regard for all gods*
    *of our sanAtanadharma*, let them announce it and give the details
    for which the scholarly world will be thankful. 4.  There are so many ancient Siva temples in south India (comprising
    Tamilnadu, Andhra and Karnataka) where the Ramayana stories are
    sculptured and sometimes even painted. (In fact, there are quite a
    few Research projects devoted to the study of such motifs focussing
    mainly on the Siva temples.) Some of KRshNa's bAlalIla-s are
    depicted along with many Saiva motifs in these Siva temples. In fact
    it is almost like a rule than an exception to depict such purANa
    themes irrespective of its Saiva or VaishNava aspects in the Siva
    temples. And, interestingly, which is again significant in this
    connection, we do not find any Saiva theme or motif or purANa
    stories depicted in the VishNu temples !! Needless to say who is
    more inclusive !! 5.  Further, a temple is a Saiva or VaishNava based on the main deity
    installed in the garbhagRha, the mUlasthAna, and *not on the various
    sculptural depictions found on its walls* *or pillars*.  

  
Ganesan





