+++
title = "000 Dr ramanath"

+++
[[Dr ramanath	2010-06-22, 00:44:47 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/-brkG3ouAK0)]]



Respected scholars,  
Namaskar,  
First of all I thanks to Prof Dipak Bhattacarya for giveng reference  
for the term Mastiska from Atharvaveda, I also very thakfull to Prof.  
Ramkrishn Sharma for his valuable thoughts on the subject..  
  
My question is related to the cognitive science in the context of  
Sanskrit literature. Cognitive science is an interdisciplinary system  
of investigation dealing with how information is represented and  
transformed in the brain. The brain is just a physical organ of a body  
which is the center of the nervous system in human beings and other  
vertebrates. Thus cognitive science deals with multiple research  
disciplines such as psychology, artificial intelligence, philosophy,  
neuroscience, learning sciences, linguistics, anthropology, sociology,  
and education. On the other hand in Sanskrit there are many schools  
which through light on the theories, religious practices, social  
sciences and thus provide sufficient materials on philosophy,  
Soteriology and various other relevant topics. There are three terms  
in Sanskrit language manas, cittam, and vijnyana(Buddhism). These  
three terms are generally use in same sense. In English mind and brain  
are synonymous, and consciousness is the state of being conscious or  
one’s awareness of something. According to Nyayavaisesika mana is  
dravya and it controls all organs, tacca manah sarvendriyapravartakam  
Antarendriyam svasamyogena bahyendriyAnugrAhkam ata eva  
sarvopalabdhikAranam(NyayakoSap.641). According to MAyAvadin  
antahkaran is mana, samkalpavikalpAtmakvrittmadantahkarana mana  
ityahuh, and according to them it is base of pleasure and pain. This  
is the reason that Kalidasa asserts in Sakuntalm that – pramanam  
antahkaranpravrittayah, here antahkarana means inner instrument of  
knowledge, the mind. According to Vedanta Philosophy there are six  
sene organs five external and one internal. BrihdAranyakopanisad  
(1-5-3) states that everything depends upon mana. But in fact all  
these statements indicates that mana (mind) is nothing but conceptual  
elements- Mana eva manusyanam karanam bandha moksayoh, this statement  
also supports this argument. In the light of the above it seems that  
status of mind is beyond reality . There are several references for  
Mana-mind but I want some more references from Sanskrit text for  
brain - as Prof. Dipak Bhattacarya quoted The word mastiska मस्तिष्क  
occurs in the Atharvaveda also with the variant मष्टिप्स. What is  
ancient Indian concept about brain references from Sanskrit text will  
be apreciated.

