+++
title = "001 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2017-09-05, 03:35:52 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/M0v_SaWizPw)]]



Dear List

  

Apparently, Rajendra Diwe wrote 3 more articles in Hitavada , as a special feature during GaNeshotsava.

  

I was finally able to contact him via e-mail, he said, this is the first time the name Vinaayakaa (The trouble makers) as being equivalent to GaNesha makes sense. He is a free lance write and also works as a reporter for the News Paper Hitavada a Newspaper at Hitavada.  

  

He says he just could not stop writing theses articles after listening to my lecture at Nagpur December 2015.

  

Hope some of members will at least read the attached articles.

Based on these articles, may be I should put my book on [AMAZON.COM](http://AMAZON.COM), (Hopefully soon)  

  

Rgds

  

Dr. Yadu

  

NOTE: I often see Sanskrit students asking for help from scholars on this list, with what they should study as a subject matter for their Ph.D. thesis, and silliness, of wanting to come to US Universities to study Sanskrit !?.  

  

"HOW SAD" !!??  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**From:** 'Dr. Yadu Moharir' via भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत् \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
**To:** भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत् \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
**Sent:** Wednesday, August 30, 2017 9:10 AM  
**Subject:** {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} GaNesha Article by Rajendre Diwe  

  

Dear List

  

Recently there has been discussion on GaNeha in Veda.

  

Attached please find an article by Rajendra Diwe from New Paper Hitavada dated August 27 2017.

dents  

He had attended my talk in December 2015.

  

May be I was able to touch and resonate his cords of thinking.

  

My focus is on the UTILITY and not just Who said WHAT & WHERE ? One needs to look and reflect on WHY someone may have said so in a specific manner !!?  

  

I firmly believe that all knowledge is for the living and it has no value to me, after I am dead, thus we need to use the knowledge when we are still alive.  

  

Best Rgds

  

Dr Yadu  

--  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.  

  
  

