+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-10-08, 02:19:38 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/fN9yowscH_w)]]



**Archaeology in India has matured, Sengupta**

Submitted by Jimmy Peterson on 2010, October 7 - 12:54

<http://topnews.com.sg/images/archaeology-india.jpg>



Gautam Sengupta, the director general of the Archaeological Survey of India said on Wednesday that Archaeology in the country has matured in itsgeographicexpanse and the nature of questions it raises in the last five decades.

He was speaking atthe seventhconvocation ceremony of the Deccan College that awarded 66 students with P G Diploma and M A and PhD degrees.



"The most significant development in the domain of archaeology in India that happened in the post-independence years was the academitisation of archaeology through theuniversity system,” he said.



He acknowledged the contributions made by academicians like H D Sankalia, K G Goswami, K C Chattopadhyay and G R Sharma to the discipline and expressed that the subjected matures after the academia took active and cultivated interest in it.

The subject was initially related to descriptive accounts supported by measured drawings and since has gone more complex in nature. He pointed out the range of issues raised by the practitioners of archaeology in the country and expressed that it shows that the discipline has taken a large step ahead.

He believes that the Indian subcontinent can offer new a new dimension to archaeological research with its diverse material aspects and rich philosophical tradition however the archeology has to be reinvented. Regarding the future of the discipline he said that the archeology will become critical, interpretive, self-reflexive and holistic and will aim to understand dimensions of human behavior in the past time and present.

<http://topnews.com.sg/content/25293-archaeology-india-has-matured-sengupta>

