+++
title = "005 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2011-04-16, 19:56:37 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/aLRUnHn4-c8)]]



Namaste Prof Korada:

  

In your write-up you mentioned the following:

  

"Medically , it is believed that, the water which touches gold is good for health ."  

  

I am not aware of any such reference. Could you please provide any specific documentation for this?

  

Unlike most metals, there are very few compounds are possible but have to be forced utilizing extreme conditions using high electrical potentials. They were specifically prepared for improving conductivity of other metals to form God-Clad films. Example: Gold plated connections for video-audio connectors. I do have number of references for this process but that may not add value to the discussion here in this group.  

  

IMO - The real importance of Gold lies in it's ability not to react under normal conditions. That is why Truth and Gold have always been compared with each other. When one says "Truth is Golden" and it is literally states eternity, just like "trikaalaatiita".  

  

Culturally speaking, the most important ornament for any Indian women is her husband (pati), "saubhaagya", "suhaaga", without they a very little place in the society.  

  

Just my perspective.  

  

Thanks

  

Dr. Yadu  

  

  

  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**From:** subrahmanyam korada \<[kora...@gmail.com]()\>  
**To:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
**Sent:** Saturday, April 16, 2011 1:55 AM  
**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} The 'abhushana' of women  



