+++
title = "007 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2011-04-16, 22:14:20 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/aLRUnHn4-c8)]]



Namaste Dr. Kannan:  

  

Yes, "Silence of Gold"  

  

Here are mu thoughts on this issue:  

  

Without that one cannot perceive (listen to) when others are saying. In scientific terms that is is universal principle that is often referred as increasing "Signal to Noise Ratio". In our Vaidika tradition we recite Shaanti mantra, the purpose behind that also must have been to diminish the interference and improve the receptive ability of the listener (student). A teacher (guru) does not need to listen it is the responsibility of the student to listen to what is being discoursed by his teacher. In olden due to absence of reliable written language for Sanskritam, importance of accents, length of vowels and other well known saamapradaayika tools teacher passed his knowledge to the next generations. That is why, Shanti mantra must have acquired the primary place in recitation and deliberation on upaniShada.  

  

My arrival of the above is simply based paaNiniiya shixaa:

  

avaxara.mnaaaayuShyaM visvaraM vyaadhipiiDitam \|  
axataa shastra ruupeNa vajraM patati mastake \|\| paaNiniiya shixaa 53 \|\|

  

It is also true ""the Golden Receptacle seals the face of Truth".  
  
As expressed in Isha Upa.  
  

hiraNmayena paatreNa satyasyaapihitaM mukham.h .  
tattvaM puushhannapaavR^iNu satyadharmaaya dR^ishhTaye .. 15..  

  

also applies here. Here, one is requesting assistance of puushana to uncover what is covered. If one takes puuShana as Sun then it means lignt is necessary to see clearly fore seeing things clearly. However, if one takes the puuShana, whi is described in R^igveda as dantavihiina (the one without teeth) then also above statement gets satisfied. Then the meaning would be to seek help/assistance from elderly folks for uncovering the untrue.  

  
Marketing is a perfect example, where beautiful actresses use endorse soaps and other product they personally never use everyday. They will look pretty even if they won't wash their face for months or apply the make-up. The message is intended to the average consumers. It is the responsibility to uncover and evaluate for themselves to determine the real truth behind the advertisement. In the US, agencies like FDA and FTC are constantly going after deceptive practices from the industry.  
  
Samartha Ranmdasswami, recommends to evaluate everything for yourself and satisfy your with with your own thinking  
  

tasmaat vichaara karaavaa \| deva koNa to voLakhaavaa \|\|  
aapalaa aapaNa shodha ghyaavaa \| a.ntaryaamii.n \|\| daasabodha 4.7 \|\|  

  
  
Having said all of the above, sometimes it is necessary to to improve the effectiveness of the product without compromising the intended purpose without making the product unaffordable. This is exactly achieved when copper connectors were electroplated with Gold. Here, the real purpose of Gold is purely to prevent oxidation of copper which after forming oxides will affect the conductance. Contribution to conductance is really negligible.  
  
The primary thread of discussion was "aabhuShaNa" (ala.nkaara) for women.  
  
Yes, they are important for the following reasons.  
  
a. It accentuates their inherent appeal to men.  
  
b. Also establishes their affluence.  
  
c. Jewelery provides a back-up option to liquidate the assets in case of emergency.  
  
d.  Even today, despite of ant-dowry movement in India; many girls (ugly) would possibly never be able to get suitors from respectable family.  
  
Even in the Sanskrit literature, one intertwine the hands of "ala.nkaara shaastra" to romance the beauty of meaning and the message.  
  
Additional comments from scholars would be highly appreciated.

  
Best regards,  
  
Dr. Yadu  

  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**From:** Sampath Kannan \<[ks_k...@yahoo.com]()\>  
**To:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
**Sent:** Saturday, April 16, 2011 7:40 AM





