+++
title = "009 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2011-04-16, 23:26:16 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/aLRUnHn4-c8)]]



Namaste Dr. Ramakrishna:

  

Gods does not form oxide and that is why it if found as Metallic Gold.

  

<http://matsci.uah.edu/courseware/mts501/reports/sschwitalla.html>

  

I have looked at what Ayurvedic Folks call Goldbhasma. So far I have not found any efficacy for what is thought to be so. If it is true, then why no one wants to take it head on and document the evidence always puzzles me.

  

All metallic gold gets excreted as elemental gold int he feces.  

  

One of the worst bhasma that is prepared and prescribed by the Ayurvedic physicians if lohabhasma. I personally stopped one of my friends who was preparing the bhasma from wilkinson and 7"0Clock razor blades.
Being very thin it does make a nice bhasma. However, when I analyzed the bhasma I found over 10% Chromium. Which is extremely toxic and is known to cause and potentate leukemia. My friend finally stopped from using the razor blades for preparing his own bhasma.  

  

It is unfortunate that Indians are so gullible and I blame this state of affair under the classification "shraddhaa" (correctly it should be andha-shraddhaa). That is why everyday many shaadhu's and faqurir's dispense medicine and treatments. One of my close friend at Nagpur, who own and operates an Emergency Hospital for approx 60 beads, once he stated that his business is booming only because of unorthodox and unproven medicinal practices. Just looking at clinical charts and observing the total amount of heavy metals in the patients admitted to the emergency clinic would be a total turn-off for any sane person.
These observation have been shared with Indian Medical Association but no one wants to tackle the real issues, they rather talk about Giitaa and feel good obte themselves that they are so pious or bow just down to the saffron robes.

  

It is about time that scholars from all disciplines follow kaalidaasaa's doctrine "puraaNa mutye va nasaadhu sarvam" and establish fact as facts once in for all.  

  

Best regards,

  

Dr. Yadu

  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**From:** Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma \<[d.ramak...@gmail.com]()\>  
**To:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
**Sent:** Saturday, April 16, 2011 9:49 AM





