+++
title = "020 Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma"

+++
[[Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma	2011-04-18, 05:52:42 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/aLRUnHn4-c8)]]



Namaste.  
  
\>Siddhamakaradhvajam (?)  
True. I remember the references made by Dr.N.Gopalakrishnan,  
Director of Indian Institute of Scientific Heritage, during Amrita TV talk  
regarding purification of Mercury achieved around only 78% through modern  
processes to obtain its oxide form, by the Germans. It is stated by Dr.N.G that they  
found that the traditional processes used in India produced 100% pure  
required form and they have recorded the same. He may be contacted  
at [www.iish.org](http://www.iish.org)  
The Kottakkal Arya Vaidya Shala, Kerala has many Bhasma preparations which  
have recorded wide acclaim.  
  
Further,  
Late Pundit Taranath of Karnataka has to his credit many Bhasma preparations,  
including Loha Bhasma,which did work and heal not just one or two cases  
but thousands of his patients. He has written many books on his findings.  
Some of them are used as texts in the courses of Ayurveda here.  
  
I have one or two books in Kannada. Will come with the details soon.  
What about हाटकं which a form of gold, other than(?) जाम्बूनदसुवर्णं, which  
again is different from usual सुवर्णं ?  
**सर्वे गुणा: काञ्चनमाश्रयन्ति !** Why? Because, gold retains its sterling quality  
under all conditions, unless adulterated by human weaknesses! Hence  
the Gunas take gold as standard value. Don't we mention** sterling character?  
हेम्न: संलक्ष्यते ह्यग्नौ विशुद्धि: श्यामिका'पि वा।**  
  
  
  

2011/4/16 subrahmanyam korada \<[kora...@gmail.com]()\>





