+++
title = "009 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2012-07-19, 20:01:38 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/b7xIYid2_Hc)]]



Namaste Ganeshan,

  

I think is often called as "Selective Hearing" or "a Cat drinking Milk" Syndrome. A convenient way t.o shrug their own responsibility  

  

If we ask the question for the current state of affairs in our society? The answer must be I am, You are and We are !!

  

This is like an alcoholic who never admits hisd own problems and tries to blame everyone around him. The recovery can only begin with the admission of problem.

  

Hope, this and other scholarly lists on the internet deliberate on why our ancestors may have said specific things in a specific manner. This may have direct relationship with the social environment during specific periods (For Example: Various smR^iti's). All I am trying to say, is that all quotations do not and cannot be used for all situations without considering the specific variables. This comparative study can only be performed by scholars.  

  

Best Rgds,

  

Dr Yadu  

  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**From:** Ganesan \<[gan...@ifpindia.org]()\>  
**To:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
**Sent:** Wednesday, July 18, 2012 11:02 PM  
**Subject:** {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Where are we heading for ???  

  

I am stunned just as many of us do, to read such a mail from such scholars.  
  
Condemning forthrightly everything concerned with temple worship and practices as  

"nonsense - unmeaningful - अन्धविश्वासः "  
just because some greedy astrologers concocte new 'grahaparihaara-s' and a few ignorant puujaari-s mislead the masses *behoves only a "PaashaNDa" and a Naastika.*  

  
Does it mean that our ancient Rishi-s who are considered as the recepients of these divine corpus--the Agama-s--are cheats and scoundrels ???  
If we, the Sanskrit students/scholars ourselves do not have the right attitude and are not ready to take pains for knowing the deep meanings expounded in these texts and the traditions, then who will be ready for it ?  
  
 *अग्निहोत्रं त्रयो* वेदास्त्रिदण्डं भस्मगुण्ठनम्। बुद्धिपौरुषहीनानां जीविका धातृनिर्मिता॥  
This popular verse is cited in many commentaries as the condemnation brought by the heretics and materialists --Caarvaaka-s--against the Sanaatanadharma practices and how strange is it that it is cited here with approval !!!!  
  
**Where are we heading for ???**  
  
Ganesan  



