+++
title = "004 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2014-11-21, 15:09:12 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/rTadguF3LdA)]]



Nov 20, 2014



Dated Nov 20, 2014

Dear Prof.N. Paturi and Dr. H.N. Bhat



Thanks for pointing out my mistakes. My original intension was to find out opinion of scholars about the usage of terms VarNadhvani and VarNasphota.



I did not have any intention to belittle or ridicule ideas of Sphota of other scholars ancient or modern. I have no desire to express any views against VyAkaraNa darshana. On this list I never wrote about any of the many darshanas. Flying in the sky expression was not appropriate. I was thinking about Paraa Vaak. So I apologize for hurting your sensitivities about VyAkaraNa darshana.



When I wrote no grammar, it means I do not want to use my VarNavAda in explaining grammatical endings in Sanskrit. Such question was asked to me in the past. I limit myself to Sanskrit shabdas. Because Sanskrit is famous for polysemy, the word shabda may have many meanings which include its use in also Shabdabrahma. I respect your ideas about Brahman.



I did not invent the word VarNavAda. It is used by many authors in the past. Here are two examples I found right away.

(1) Contribution of Vacaspati Mishra to Indian Philosophy by S. Ranganath, page 94 and 95. Here is discussion on Varnavada and Varnamaalaasvada.

(2) Trends of Linguistic Analysis in Indian Philosophy by Hari Mohan Jha. On page 14 and 15, there is discussion on Varnavada.



In future I will take care of distinguishing between my understanding and that of others about sphota and VarNavAda. Thanks. I gained from this discussion.

Thanks. NRJOSHI



  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: Nagaraj Paturi \<[nagara...@gmail.com]()\>  
To: [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Mimams akas, Sphota and Sphotasiddhi  
Date: Tue, 18 Nov 2014 20:52:38 +0530  
  

My paper on Current VarNavada and New VarNavada was accepted for publication.



---congratulations Dr. Joshi.



My new VarNavada shows internal beauty of Sanskrit words (no grammar) and doing that it explains greatness of culture of India.



---- '(no grammar)' shows that your vAda is not in line with vaiyAkaraNa approach. I am not looking at 'not being in line with vaiyAkaraNa approach' as a flaw. 'not being in line with vaiyAkaraNa approach'is the feature of your vAda, not its flaw. Youmay pursue your vAda in your own way.This is a forum where you will get good support for your attempt to show the internal beauty of Sanskrit words and any attempt that explains the greatness of Indianculture. 



Just curious. Was the word 'vaNavAda' used anywhere in earlier works? Is this your coinage? You want to give the name varNavAda to a certain portion of the thoughts of Shankara, Shabara, Kumarila etc. ?You can not mix sphoTa with their thoughts. You can not mix your vaiyAkaraNadars'anaviruddha ideas with the vaiyAkaraNadars'ana concepts such as sphoTa. You can nottake terms of vaiyAkaraNa dars'ana concepts such as s'abda, sphoTa and give your own definitions to them and say, for me this word means this. Sanskrit word S'abda as a non-s'Astra general word is different from , say, the 's'abda' of vAkyapadIyam. You can not say "for me the Sanskrit word s'abda means" in a tone of differing with vAkyapadIyam or its followers/students, because they are not talking about the general Sanskrit word s'abda.



"Others may think sphota has heavenly, para , somewhere in the Shabdabrahma",



--------------- Apart from the difficulty in comprehending this ungrammatical sentence, there are huge problemssuch asjudgemental attitudein this statement. Who are these others? If there is an assumption here that all others than you among those studying sphoTa , s'abdabrahma etc.are superstitious and view such concepts just through some irrational faith, you are mistaken andany one with such attitude as yoursneeds to realize the rational rigour with which traditional scholars handle these concepts.



"In the book Encyclopedia of Philosophies (Coward and Kunjjuni Raja), there is one paper that describes efforts made in the past to give earthly character to sphota instead keeping it hanging in the sky.



I recently read an article by Tandra Patnaik. She was describing some kind of grounding is needed to sphotavada"



----------- I do not know if the scholars mentioned by you have the same problemssuch asjudgemental attitudereflected in your words or you are reading your ideas into their words. If will check ,if possible, directly fromtheir works and see if they have asimilar delusion about traditional scholarshipof sphoTa and sphoTa vAda.



I wish you all the best for your research on Sanskrit varNas using tools of acoustic research and other newly available methods and have hope that it will add new knowledge in that area of researchthough I have my ownreservations about the suitability of the name varNavAda to this kind of understanding.



















