+++
title = "008 S. L. Abhyankar"

+++
[[S. L. Abhyankar	2019-08-05, 10:54:56 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/ODDSvey4E08)]]



Dr. Baldevanand Sagar has large number of videos teaching Sanskrit in Sanskrit medium, in a series titled "Learn Sanskrit, Be Modern".

I am marking Cc to him.

A Google-search on "Dr. Baldevanand Sagar" would bring forth exciting information.

People would know that he was reader of Sanskrit news on All India Radio and also on Door-darshan for many, many years.

His legacy of Reading and broadcasting News in Sanskrit continues even today.

All these are videos of chaste Sanskrit, yet in such Sanskrit, which can be commonly understood.

He translates into Sanskrit every month the "मन की बात" speech of Shri. Narendra Modi, Prime Minister of India.

There are videos available of speeches delivered by incumbent Shankaracharya of Shringeri Math. Some members would be able to give links readily.

Dr. Sampadanand Mishra of Aravindashram, Puduchcherry has been doing gallant work promoting Sanskrit catching children young.

He has been also conducting workshops for people of all ages and of all nationalities, with a beautiful title "स्पन्दनम्" I am marking Cc to him also. Maybe, he has some videosalsoof his workshops.

  





> --  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  

> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> To view this discussion on the web visit > <https://groups.google.com/d/msgid/bvparishat/CAFPaCQO4d_%2BD4YLSXxA3oHdyjbRP1NTWwdKD4GqgA6aj7ZyYbA%40mail.gmail.com>.  

