+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2011-05-28, 23:27:58 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/hQ0CDCEGtNs)]]



I am pleased to announce the publication of a new book edited by me:

  

Rastram: Hindu history in United Indian Ocean States edited by S. Kalyanaraman, Sarasvati Research Center

552 pages

ISBN-10: 0982897111

ISBN-13: 978-0982897119

  

<http://tinyurl.com/3av722v>

  

Description: It focuses on an opportunity to realize almost 2 millennia of dharma-dhamma values enshrined in the hearts of over 2 billion people along the nations of the Indian Ocean Rim. This is a compilation of insights, analyses and excerpts from works of by many savants and scholars about Hindu history.

  

A supranational covenant as the true foundation of an organized Indian Ocean Community (IOC) is a counterpoise to European Community. This IOC or United Indian Ocean States (UIOS) should remain open to all nations of Indian Ocean Rim. The 59 states and territories located along the rim of the Indian Ocean from South Africa to Tasmania constitute the Indian Ocean Community. The 1994 modified Law of the Sea extends territorial waters into 200 nautical miles from the baseline as economic zones. The Hindu historical traditions and the amended UN Law of the Sea help use the potential to create a 6 trillion dollar GDP UIOS and act provide for enhanced welfare of over 2 billion people overcoming the travails of colonial loot. Along the 63,000 mile long rim of the Indian Ocean work can start on Trans-Asian Highway and Trans-Asian Railway Projects and build upon the civilizational heritage.

  

S. Kalyanaraman

Sarasvati Research Center

[kaly...@gmail.com]()

  

  

