+++
title = "002 v...@csa.iisc.ernet.in"

+++
[[v...@csa.iisc.ernet.in	2009-03-14, 13:53:59 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/8FeD9h2arcc)]]



Dear Sirs  
In the latest issue of the prestigious science journal CURRENT SCIENCE  
dated 10 March 2009, Dr J V Narlikar, a renowned Indian Astrophysicist,  
the founder director of IUCAA, Pune has published a paper entitled "A  
Statistical Test for Astrology". Needless to say, the so called test has  
"proved' that astrological predictions are not valid.

I attach a copy of this paper. I am not standing a brief for the validity  
of Astrology but I believe that the paper is not worthy of being published  
in a prestigious science journal. The test was not proper and biased.  
The group started with the idea of ridiculing astrology as a blind belief.  
One of the authors iS FROM Maharashtra Andhashraddha Nirmulan Samiti, c/o  
Parivartan, Sahyog Hospital ‘Annex’, Sadarbazar, Satara 415 001, India.

My intention of writing this as follows. Jyotisha is one of the six  
vedangas. It is intimately connected with karma siddhanta and belief in  
rebirth or cycle of births and deaths.

The Wikipedia elegantly characterizes jyotisha thus JyotiSHA(Sanskrit  
jyotisha --jyoti- "light, heavenly body": also spelled Jyotish and  
Jyotisha in English) is the Hindu system of astrology (also known as  
Indian astrology, Hindu astrology, and of late, Vedic astrology).  
Traditionally, it has three branches:\[1\]

Siddhanta: , which is traditional Indian astronomy.  
Samhita: also known as Medini Jyotisha (mundane astrology), predicting  
important events based on analysis of astrological dynamics in a country's  
horoscope or general transit events such as war, earthquakes, political  
events, financial positions, electional astrology; house and construction  
related matters (Vāstu Shāstra), animals, portents, omens etc.  
Hora: Predictive astrology based on analysis of natal horoscopes and the  
moment a query is made.  
The latter two are part of predictive astrology (Phalita). Conceptually,  
therefore, Indian astrology has two branches, Ganita (Siddhanta) and  
Phalita (Samhita plus Hora).  
There is no astrology-astronomy distinction in Jyotisha. At this time if  
some does believe in astrology or fixes a good muhurtam for an event  
it should be treated at least as Hindu religious belief and respected as  
such. Our scientists want to debunk everything Indian as blind belief  
while they dare not touch the beliefs of otherrelgions.

My request to group meembers is the following. I am anyway writing a  
comment to the journal that the paper is a prejudiced, unscientific and  
misleading work couched in pseudo-scietific terms. If some one has a view  
please share with me

VVS Sarma

