+++
title = "005 Shrisha Rao"

+++
[[Shrisha Rao	2009-03-15, 15:38:12 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/8FeD9h2arcc)]]



El mar 14, 2009, a las 10:00 p.m., [v...@csa.iisc.ernet.in]() escribiÃ³:

\> Dear all = Sorry for sending my mail under wrong subject title  
\> PUNARJANMA IN MAYAAVAADA. I am attaching my proposed reply. Kimdly  
\> see under the earlier subject for the paper of Narlikar et al.

Interesting article, but no need to get worked up about it. I am also  
not sure about the proposed response, as to say that \`\`Such beliefs  
are not in the purview of scientific scrutiny'' is really to concede  
the point, that astrology is dogma and cannot stand scientific scrutiny.

Unlike some others here, I also find little wrong with the authors'  
motives, and might even agree with them to a large extent (e.g., it is  
really a travesty that many people seem to believe that wearing the  
right birth-stone is more important for success than hard work and  
dedication). To me, a more significant criticism would be purely  
methodological, analogous to noting the way Sir R.A. Fisher  
incorrectly criticized the proposed link between smoking and lung  
cancer during the early part of the 20th century (verily a fact as we  
know, but which he did not accept).

Basically, the authors have only shown that whatever is practiced by  
the 27 self-proclaimed astrologers is little better than random  
chance. By the same standard, I could evaluate the diagnoses and  
treatments of some similar number of quacks, and proclaim that the  
science of medicine is worthless. Without more rigorous evaluation  
with much larger populations and control over inputs, such bold  
conclusions as the authors come to are not permissible, and yes, that  
too is science. No drug trial would be taken seriously if it was  
performed to the same sloppy standards.

Regards,

Shrisha Rao

\> VVS Sarma

