+++
title = "000 Dr.BVK Sastry"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry	2009-10-19, 13:47:57 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/kFdGq81HekQ)]]



Namaste  
  
Placed below is an invittion to all Sanskritists for participation in  
the workshop below.  
The White Paper of this workshop is uploaded to the files section in  
the name : UniVoice code Workshop White Paper.  
  
INVITATION FOR WORKSHOP PARTICIPATION  
  
Human Speech - Digital Standards- Indian Languages Initiative  
  
Indian Initiative for Non-English like languages based on Inputs from  
Samskrutam Traditions With a proposal for  
Formation of Uni-Voice Code Consortium - Progressing to the next level  
from Unicode  
  
  
Indian Heritage Group, C-DAC, (KP) invites you to a workshop planned  
for deliberations on Human Speech standards for the family of Indian  
languages. This is an Indian traditions-technology handshake and  
initiative, addressing the topic of digital standards for human speech  
in Indian languages, by taking inspirational inputs from resources in  
Samskrutham traditions.  
  
  
Date: Friday 30th October 2009 Time: 10.00 AM to 1.00 PM  
  
Venue: Auditorium, Center for Development of Advanced Computing.  
C-DAC Knowledge Park,  
  
Opp. HAL Aeroengine Division, Old Madras Road, Byappanahalli,  
Bengalooru - 560038 Karnataka  
  
(India), Phones: +91-80-6611,6400/01/02/03,25244059/25246823,  
Fax: [+91-80-2524-7724](tel:+91%2080%202524%207724)  
  
  
Registration: Entry by Prior Registration. There is NO FEES CHARGED  
for Participation.  
  
Please confirm participation by Phone: 66166343 / Email  
[to:gla...@cdacb.ernet.in]()  
  
Audience Invited / Addressed:  
  
Researchers and Programmers ( working in the Speech related areas -  
Voice recognition, Speech Interfaces, TTS, IVR, Text readers, Spoken  
systems, voice web, HMI, IS, Robotics, AI, )  
Samskrutam Language experts, Indian Languages Linguists, Language  
technologists, Vedic traditional scholars working for digital  
preservation of Vedic resources  
Indic language technologists, multilingual application developers,  
Language Standards bodies.  
  
  
Workshop Topics addressed (proposed): \* The digital technologies  
challenges as Indian Initiative \*Non-Roman script Indian languages  
Initiative \* Integrated solutions for OCR/TTS / Multilingual  
Dictation/ Machine translation/ Digital libraries /Text readers/ HMI/  
AI /IS from the perspective of Samskrutam traditions\* Why we need an  
Indic languages watch-body on maintaining language representation  
standards in digital domains  
  
  
Program: 09.45 Assembly, Inviting to start the deliberations.  
  
  
1. 10.00-10.15 - Welcome, Prayer-Lighting the Lamp, Opening Remarks –  
Setting to motion the Session Dr. P. Ramanujan, Centre Head, C-DAC,  
KP  
  
2. 10.15-10.45 - Concept Paper Presentation followed by a demo  
highlighting the proposed  
  
approach – Need for going beyond Unicode to Uni-voice code  
  
Dr. B.V. Venkatakrishna Sastry, Director, International Sanskrit  
Research, Academy, Bangalore / Professor Hindu University of America,  
Florida, USA  
  
3. 10.45 –11.15 - Presentation on speech consortium of DIT, Prof.  
A.G. Ramakrishna, Dept. of Electrical Engineering, IISc, Bangalore  
  
4. 11.15- 11.30- Inputs on expectation in this field and a phonetic  
code Prof. G.N.S. Prasanna,  
  
IIIT, Bangalore  
  
5. 11.30-11.40 - Short break  
  
6. 11.40-12.15 - End User expectations perspective: Avadootha Datta  
Peetam, Mysore, JIVA –  
Jeeyar Integrated Vedic Academy, Hyderabad, Vishwakshema Trust,  
Mysore  
  
7. 12.15-12.45- Open house session - A brainstorming/panel  
discussion by research participants  
  
8. 12.45 –12.55 - Resolution of proposal for formation of Uni-Voice  
code consortium – Road map ahead, Team list, Organization logistics  
model ( Like [www.w3c.org](http://www.w3c.org))  
  
9. 12.55-1.00 - Vote of Thanks, Adjournment, lunch hosted by CDAC  
(KP)  
  
-----------  
  
Please request the Samskrutham teams to take interest in participation  
by confirmation.  
  
Regards  
  
BVK Sastry  
  

