+++
title = "037 Dr. T. Ganesan"

+++
[[Dr. T. Ganesan	2014-07-24, 12:29:22 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/Di8AHCCYzl0)]]



On 21-07-2014 23:26, Vidyasankar Sundaresan wrote:  

> 
> >   
> > 
> > *5. Regarding the title shaNmata sthApanAcArya, please note that this > title is not even present in any of the traditional birudAvalI-s of > the SankarAcArya pITha-s. There is a "shaD-darSana-sthApanAcarya" > title given to vidyAraNya, and by extension, to his lineage successors > in various institutions in the southern part of India, but this refers > to the standard list of six darSana-s and has nothing to do with the > shaN-mata of Saiva, vaishNava etc.* >
> 
> > 
> > ** >
> 
> > 
> > *6. Regarding the 1969 conference proceedings that Sri Ajit > Gargeshwari cited: My personal opinion, for whatever it is worth, is > that beyond a feel-good factor for some groups, this publication will > not add scholarly value to any discussion. There are > numerousSankaravijaya texts available and people often say > thatdescriptions of shaNmata sthApana come from these texts. However, > this is not true, becausethe reality is that almost all these texts > say nothing about shaNmata.The only one that could be seen as coming > close is the Sankaravijaya of anantAnandagiri, which happens to bethe > most contentious such text within the tradition. First printed from > Calcutta in the 1870s, it has always been rejected by Sringeri > authorities, for numerous reasons.The chapters where it > describesshaNmata sthApana are full of fanciful and > ahistoricalaccounts and have been accused, by various scholars,of > having been heavily tampered with. Surprisingly,this textincludes > not the kaumAra, but the kApAlika mata, as the sixth tradition that > was accepted by Adi Sankara. Interestingly enough, while Saiva, SAkta, > gANapatya, saura and kApAlika mata-s get one leader each, all of them > supposedly direct disciples of Adi Sankara, the vaishNava mata alone > gets two such leaders, but with a narrowly south Indian focus. > anantAnandagiri says that Sankara sent out one disciple named > lakshmaNa, an amSAvatAra of AdiSesha, to Kanchipuram in the east,and > another called hastAmalaka, an amSa of vAyu, to rajatapITha, i.e. > Udupi,in the west, in order to teach vaishNava modes of worship, > including UrdhvapuNDra/gopIcandana dhAraNa, SaraNAgati and tapta-mudrA > dhAraNa. It should be obvious to even a casual reader that this > "lakshmaNa" is really rAmAnujAcArya and this "hastAmalaka" is really > madhvAcArya.* >
> 
> > 
> > ** >
> 
> > 
> > *Dr. Veezhinathan, editor of the 1970 edition from U Madras, has a > footnote which theorizes that perhaps some "tAntrika vaishNava-s" have > interpolated these descriptions into these chapters, but I, for one, > fail to see why any vaishNava would have wanted to subordinate > rAmAnuja and madhva to Sankara in this manner. It seems far more > likely to me that any possible text-tampering had to have been done > not by a vaishNava but by some self-described andshort-sighted > follower of Sankara.The entire description in this text really comes > across as clumsy polemics from one group of south Indian smArta-s > against SrIvaishNava-s and mAdhva-s, through an anachronisticstory of > how Adi Sankara was directly the guru of the leaders of both these > vaishNava traditions. In either case, it follows that a shAnmata > sthApana description is most probably alien to the original version of > this Sankaravijaya textas well. If that is the case, then we have to > conclude that there is not even one Sankaravijaya that can provide > solidtextual support for connecting Adi Sankara with shaNmata > sthApana. It is just something that has got established in the popular > imagination through repetition by kathAkAra-s, with no basis even in > the hagiographic texts. This is akin tohow in the Garhwal region they > say that Adi Sankara fought against Buddhists usingboth Sastra > andSAstra. It makesfor nice alliteration and we all know that > Sankara definitely used SAstra, but it is anybody's guess what Sastra > he may have used. For a more detailed discussion, please see my paper > in the International Journal of Hindu Studies,* ***Conflicting > hagiographies and history: the place of Śaṅkaravijaya texts in Advaita > tradition**, 2000, 4(2), 109-184.* >
> 
> > 

  

Not to omit here another such Sankaravijayam, which recounts that Sankara had defeated both Abhinavagupta and NIlakaNTha in debate !!!  
I wonder What purpose these most irrational texts presenting themselves as worse than Fairy Tales, have served ?  
Is it not now the time that Advaita VedAnta adherents who swear by Sankara and marvel at his uncompromising logic and devotion to truth, throw these books overboard by not citing from them and much still, not wasting their scholarship & energy in editing and translating them ??

  
  

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 7\. *With respect to the stotra-s attributed to Adi Sankara, there has > been at least one genuineacademic attempt to analyze their > authorship. A 1976 paper by Robert Gussner in the Journal of the > American Oriental Society concludes, if I remember right, that the > dakshiNAmUrti stotra (viSvaM darpaNadRSyamAna nagarItulyaM ...) is the > only one that could be authentic, based on stylistic comparison with > the verse chapters of upadeSasAhasrI.  
> *  
> > 
> > 

  

I just want to draw the attention in this context, to SaundaryalaharI.  
NIlakaNThadIkshita cites the very first verse, शिवः शक्त्या युकतो ....... in his elaborate commentary SIVATATTVARAHASYAM on the SivAShTottaraSatanAmastotra, while commenting the name वामदेवाय नमः.  
He just prefaces it by saying यथोक्तमभियुक्तैः and does not even say आचार्यैः. In the same way, AppayadIkShita (who follows Sankara's views and his bhAshhya to the very letter) also just says तदुक्तमभियुक्तैः while citing a passage from the SaundaryalaharI in one of his works, I think, in his auto commentary on the Brahmatarkastava (if I remember correctly ). So it is clear that even upto 17th century, staunch followers of SankarAdvaita did not consider SaundaryalaharI as the work of Sankara.  
But alas !! how much "story" is delineated in all the Sankaravijayam-s about Sankara's composition of this text, his going to KailAsa for this, etc. etc.,,,,  
  
  
Ganesan  
  
  

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

