+++
title = "041 Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)	2014-07-25, 09:11:00 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/Di8AHCCYzl0)]]



Namaste Dr.T.Ganesan



The ‘ interesting and intriguing discussion’ is almost moving to a phase of animosity, in case the moderators have not noticed the language style. And may be it is time to see the facts clearly apart from fiction!



Here are my questions on the points raised in the deliberation here. ( The paper by Dr.Sunil KB, in a separate post, on dotted record of history and a different frame of time lines would be a subject for a different post.)





1. The first point requested for clarification: What is the correct position and word \< Mata = Opinion > OR \<Darshana = System of analytics to interpret and construct Vedic tradition as Prasthana Traya \> ? Assuming this claim was made by ‘ only Advaita-Shankara maTha schools’? What was the ‘social and institutional response of the post SriVaishnava / Vaishnava institutions \> ??



 The relevance of this question stands out in the backdrop of ‘ ‘Vaishnava schools’ specifically ‘ accommodating Buddha as the ‘avatar’ of Vishnu, with the authority of ‘ Sri Madhvacharya’. ! The same ‘Buddha, the anti-Vedic tradition ’ whose teachings were supposed to have been couched differently by ‘ Acharya Shankara! The charge of
‘ Pracchnna Bauddha / Maayaa vaadi ’ in the polemical debates ?? is a clear pointer to note. What was the goal of ‘ accommodating Buddha’ inside of ‘Vaishnava –Dwaita –mata’ ??



Whether it is \< Shan-mata-Sthapancharya> or \< Shad-Darshana – Sthapana-acharya> : These references are post 1300 A.D which ever way one goes ! And this is speaking about the work of Acharya who was separated by at least six hundred years of memory –faith influences. In this intermediary period \< 700 A.D to 1300 A.D \> three important issues need to be noticed: a) Acharya Shankara has attained a larger than life public image in this period. (b ) Acharya Shankara’s teachings have undergone \< intra- advaita modifications> as well as \< Special flavors of Sri Vaishnava / Saiva interpretations>. (c ) The foundation for Vaishnava – Dwaita – Udupi schools is already set and seeds are brewing.



2. About \< clumsy polemics - irrational Texts \> and \< kaThaakaara’s with no basis even in the hagiographic texts> , Why is this issue being singled out to pin down the ‘Shankara Vijayam Textual tradition ’ ?? Would some one go on board to say the same about Sumadhva Vijaya and other such texts ?? Selective targeting is not a fair forum decorum.



All the three schools of Vedanta unequivocally anchor the authoritative blessings received by ‘ Badarayana Veda-Vyasa of Brahma –Sutra tradition ( alluded in Gita: 13^(th) chapter- 4^(th) sloka: ‘Brahma-Sutra-padaischiava ; Gita dated to 3100 C.E circa ?!) ’. Each school swears that each individual Acharya was blessed by Badarayana Veda-Vyasa, for their commendable work of commenting on
‘Brahma sutra’ . The \<hagiography> seed of ‘ unquestionable faith’ of all Vedanta schools is in the time frame of 600 A D to 1300 A D;
and ALL later writings depend upon this narrative ! 



3. About \<Saundarya lahari –Acharya Shankaras work authenticity> ??
Who are these \< staunch followers of Shankara-advaita who did not consider Saundaryalahari as the work of Shankara> ?? An Acharya, who is acknowledged to have established a Shaarada Peetha at Kashmir and many Shakti-Peetha’s across India with main one at Kanchi, why should one doubt his capacity to compose a beautiful poem like Saundarya lahari, where Sri-Vidya, the \<Vedanta-Tantra - samucchaya and samanvaya has taken place ? \> The deep connection of Vedanta –Adviata and SriVidya – Srichakra Pooja paddhati is an esoteric practice, not meant for free for all forum debate.



 The debated word in Saundarya lahari \< Dramida Shishu>: which is used as an argument to denounce the authorship of Saundarya lahari to Shankara by some writers: Who gave the understanding -meaning of the word \<Dramida \> as \< specific south Indian state with Aryan-Dravidian race division >?? 

When the vocabulary –meaning shifts for technical words are ported across historic time lines in \< un-scholarly mode and translation>, the results are disastrous. The meaning of the \< Vedic /Word dramida> also found in Mahabharata has been highly debated . In one school, Dramida-bhahsaa means: \< five Dravidian languages of South India (Pancha- Bhasha, are Tulu, Tamil, Telugu, Kannada and Malayalam). In some other school, \<Dramida> is Malayalam only (? -
<http://joshuaproject.net/people_groups/20218/IN> ) ?? . So what is
\<dramida –shishu> ?? And in what way the \< dramida shishu \> status brings down the association of authorship of Saundarya lahari with Shankara ? The nirguna brahma avaita end ? The same Acharya has provided many Saguna –brahma upaasanaa margas also !



Much obliged if the scholars help to clarify the above points.



Regards

BVK Sastry



------------------------------------------------------------------------

No virus found in this message.  
Checked by AVG - [www.avg.com](http://www.avg.com)  
Version: 2014.0.4716 / Virus Database: 3986/7903 - Release Date: 07/22/14



