+++
title = "042 Dr. T. Ganesan"

+++
[[Dr. T. Ganesan	2014-07-25, 12:02:35 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/Di8AHCCYzl0)]]



  
  
  
On 24-07-2014 20:13, Vidyasankar Sundaresan wrote:  

> 
> > On Thursday, July 24, 2014 2:59:22 AM UTC-4, Ganesan wrote: >
> > 
> > > > 
> > > > On 21-07-2014 23:26, Vidyasankar Sundaresan wrote:  
> > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> >   
> *Dr. Ganesan, this really takes the cake. Please point to one > "rational" text among the loads of hagiographies the world over. Have > you considered that there is always a lot of fantastic and > non-historical details in traditional accounts of the lives of\*all\* > religious figures, no matter what religion they represent?For > example, would you like to ask the same question about rationality and > fairy tales with respect to Tamil texts like Sekkizhar's Periyapuranam > or Paranjyotiyar's Tiruvilaiyadal Puranam? Unlike you, however, I will > not ask Tamil Saiva siddhAntin-s to throw these books overboard!* >
> 
> > 

  

Mr. Vidyasankar,  
I am so sorry for your total ignorance about Sekkizhar's Periyapuranam or Paranjyotiyar's Tiruvilaiyadal Puranam.*  
*It is much clear that you have not taken care to read anything about the origin of the Sekkizhar's Periyapuranam. He being the Prime minister of the Chola king in in the 12th century, first of all collected himself the facts about the lives of the NAyanmAr-s from the various places they had visited and after due verification, then started composing the PeriyapurANam. In that narration of the lives of NAyanmAr-s there is absolutely no contardition at least with regard to the various historical figures, or any irrationality or incongruous depiction or distortion of facts or events or personages. So much research and studies on this text focussing on the social situations, contemporary customs, Bhakti, behaviour and conducts of Saiva devotees among themselves and in the society at large, etc., etc., have been done. I would suggest you to read some of the books written by Sri. T. N. Ramachandran (known as TNR) of Thanjavur who had translated the entire text into English verse and who have got many facts about PeriyapurANam as a text and its origin. If you find out any such contradictory fact after due research then show me.  
As a tit for tat reaction to my post, you have placed the PeriyapurANam on par with the Sankaravijayam-s. But, alas ! in the process please do not miss the good fortune of reading the PeriyapurANam and thereby denying yourself the great benefits just because I have criticised the irrationality of the Sankaravijayam-s. Both these texts can never be compared among themselves as each one is of entirely different kind--both in their contents and the methods of delineation. One can go on bringing out so many such dissimilarities between these two texts. One such outstanding dissimilarity among them is: The fundamental aim and purpose of the PeriyapurANam is the glorification of SIVABHAKTI through depicting the hallowed lives of the great Sivabhakta-s whereas, the Sankaravijayam-s' main aim is only to speak the greatness of Sankara alone without any declared motive of instilling Bhakti towards any form of God or to His devotees.  
How do you bring in Paranjyotiyar's Tiruvilaiyadal Puranam here ? It is not at all a hagiography in the first place which basic fact you seem to be ignorant of. It is the depiction of 64 divine lIlA-s of Siva at Madurai, and it is like any other purANam which genre of literature all the sincere followers of SanAtana dhrama are proud of.  
*Your response typifies the attitude of SankarAdvaita adherents towards any fact or view or text other than Advaita vedAnta, and that too towards anything Saiva expounded in Tamil or any other language.*

*  
*  
  
  

> 
> > 
> > *For that matter, step outside the hagiographical genre and look at > various origin stories across the world. Would you like to talk about > the irrationality that is embedded in accounts of the parting of the > Red Sea, or the birth ofa son of godfrom avirgin,or the origins of > Tibetan royalty from a one-footed creature with webbed feet and a long > tongue, or the Japanese royalty from the sun goddess, or our own > Indian royal dynasties from the sun and the moon? What purpose have > such fairy tales served? I have one answer - they have anchored entire > civilizations, ordered vast collections of human beings across great > distances, given birth to wonderful art, the list goes on.* >
> 
> > 

  

Since when did this discussion about the works/time of Sankara transform itself into a comparison of various texts among the loads of hagiographies the world over ?

  

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > *Since when did this discussion about the works attributed to > Sankara's authorshiptransform itself into polemic against texts that > seek to glorify Sankara, according to the conventions of their > times?Do save a thought for the fact that your suggestion reveals > nothing more than your own prejudice against the Sankaran tradition as > alsothe conventions of the times you live in.You expect texts > written in India, several centuries ago, to be biographies and > histories as understood in the 20th and 21st century.* >
> 
> > 

  

It is you in your very response in the earlier discussion brought in Sankaravijayam (which I have put in italics in my earlier response) and now you start complaining when the same Sankaravijayam-s are criticised. Be aware of the fact that these Sankaravijayam-s were not composed several centuries ago, but were composed only after the 16th century.

  

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > *If you want to start throwing texts overboard, please start with > cleaning out your own backyard.Again, sorry to be so blunt, but you > leave me no choice. My apologies to others who are reading this > thread.* *  
> * >
> 
> > 

  

Fortunately, unlike you I DO NOT HAVE ANY SUCH TEXT to throw overboard in my esteemed book shelf which I keep in my study room and not in the backyard.  
Objectivity and refraining from personal attack are the two important qualifications of a good researcher, which qualities are fully lacking in you. If otherwise, you would not have taken my remark addressed in general to the Advaita VedAnta adherents as a personal one and responded in the way as you have done above.

  
  

> 
> > > 
> > > > > 
> > > > > > 
> > > > > > 
> > > > > > 
> > > > > > 
> > > > > > 7\. *With respect to the stotra-s attributed to Adi Sankara, there > > > has been at least one genuineacademic attempt to analyze their > > > authorship. A 1976 paper by Robert Gussner in the Journal of the > > > American Oriental Society concludes, if I remember right, that the > > > dakshiNAmUrti stotra (viSvaM darpaNadRSyamAna nagarItulyaM ...) is > > > the only one that could be authentic, based on stylistic > > > comparison with the verse chapters of upadeSasAhasrI.  
> > > * > > > > > > 
> > > > > > 
> > > > I just want to draw the attention in this context, to > > SaundaryalaharI.  
> > NIlakaNThadIkshita cites the very first verse, शिवः शक्त्या युकतो > > ....... in his elaborate commentary SIVATATTVARAHASYAM on the > > SivAShTottaraSatanAmastotra, while commenting the name वामदेवाय > > नमः.  
> > He just prefaces it by saying यथोक्तमभियुक्तैः and does not even > > say आचार्यैः. In the same way, AppayadIkShita (who follows Sankara's > > views and his bhAshhya to the very letter) also just says > > तदुक्तमभियुक्तैः while citing a passage from the SaundaryalaharI in > > one of his works, I think, in his auto commentary on the > > Brahmatarkastava (if I remember correctly ). So it is clear that > > even upto 17th century, staunch followers of SankarAdvaita did not > > consider SaundaryalaharI as the work of Sankara.  
> > But alas !! how much "story" is delineated in all the > > Sankaravijayam-s about Sankara's composition of this text, his going > > to KailAsa for this, etc. etc.,,, > > > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > *Just one question. So what?* >
> 
> > 
> > ** >
> 
> > 
> > *Story spinning andmyth makingis an ongoing process. It happens > every second of every day. If you would like to criticize specific > people for this, that is a different story. Do not project a false > picture of the entire spectrum of admirers of Sankara and followers of > advaita vedAnta.* >
> 
> > 

  

> 
> > 
> > *Vidyasankar* >
> 
> > 

  

So what ..... ? Read my remark contained in the above passage for some more time.  
I am questioning the very same attitude of the SankarAdvaita followers which at one breath adores the uncompromising logic and rationality of Sankara and in the next breath, tolerates the spinning around of incongruous stories in the form of Sankaravijayam-s abounding in myth-mongering !  
The Sankara Myth is so big and strong and wide spread that anybody who questions the very logicality of any of the Advaita concepts or of Sankara's interpretation of certain Upanishadic passages or the historicity of the now existing Sankara maTha-s, is shouted out in the form of personal attack or by attributing motives to his questioning.  
So much about their avowed adherence to truth and logical facts. !!!  
  
Ganesan  

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > --

