+++
title = "043 Dr. T. Ganesan"

+++
[[Dr. T. Ganesan	2014-07-25, 12:14:24 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/Di8AHCCYzl0)]]



On 25-07-2014 08:28, Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop) wrote:  

> 
> > 
> > 2. About \< clumsy polemics - irrational Texts \> and \< > kaThaakaara’s with no basis even in the hagiographic texts> , Why is > this issue being singled out to pin down the ‘Shankara Vijayam Textual > tradition ’ ?? Would some one go on board to say the same about > Sumadhva Vijaya and other such texts ?? Selective targeting is not a > fair forum decorum. >
> 
> > All the three schools of Vedanta unequivocally anchor the > authoritative blessings received by ‘ Badarayana Veda-Vyasa of > Brahma –Sutra tradition ( alluded in Gita: 13^(th) chapter- 4^(th) > sloka: ‘Brahma-Sutra-padaischiava ; Gita dated to 3100 C.E circa > ?!) ’. Each school swears that each individual Acharya was blessed by > Badarayana Veda-Vyasa, for their commendable work of commenting on
> ‘Brahma sutra’ . The \<hagiography> seed of ‘ unquestionable > faith’ of all Vedanta schools is in the time frame of 600 A D to 1300 > A D; and ALL later writings depend upon this narrative !  
> > 

Mr. Sastry,  
My citing the case of sankaravijayam is only as an instance. As you have rightly said, the other texts of the "vijayam" category do not fare any better. In fact I would say that one of the many inspirations and influences that Sankaravijayam-s have contributed in the domain of irrational and incongruous hagiography is that under its inspiration, these hagiographies on RAmAnuja and the suMadhvavijayam have been composed.

  
  

> 
> > 
> > 3. About \<Saundarya lahari –Acharya Shankaras work authenticity> ?? > Who are these \< staunch followers of Shankara-advaita who did not > consider Saundaryalahari as the work of Shankara> ?? An Acharya, who > is acknowledged to have established a Shaarada Peetha at Kashmir and > many Shakti-Peetha’s across India with main one at Kanchi, why should > one doubt his capacity to compose a beautiful poem like Saundarya > lahari, where Sri-Vidya, the \<Vedanta-Tantra - samucchaya and > samanvaya has taken place ? \> The deep connection of Vedanta > –Adviata and SriVidya – Srichakra Pooja paddhati is an esoteric > practice, not meant for free for all forum debate. >
> 

You seem to repeat again the very same views such as Sankara's establishing the various maTha-s, the SrIcakrapUjA, etc., etc., *whose veracity and rationality or otherwise we are now discussing and wondering whether there is any textual authority or inscriptional record.*  
It appears from your response that there is no such question at all and it is a fully accepted fact and about which none can question !!!  

> 
> > 

> 
> > 
> >  The debated word in Saundarya lahari \< Dramida Shishu>: which is > used as an argument to denounce the authorship of Saundarya lahari to > Shankara by some writers: Who gave the understanding -meaning of > the word \<Dramida \> as \< specific south Indian state with > Aryan-Dravidian race division >?? 
> > When the vocabulary –meaning shifts for technical words are ported > across historic time lines in \< un-scholarly mode and translation>, > the results are disastrous. The meaning of the \< Vedic /Word
> dramida> also found in Mahabharata has been highly debated . In one > school, Dramida-bhahsaa means: \< five Dravidian languages of South > India (Pancha- Bhasha, are Tulu, Tamil, Telugu, Kannada and > Malayalam). In some other school, \<Dramida> is Malayalam only (? -
> <http://joshuaproject.net/people_groups/20218/IN> ) ?? . So what is
> \<dramida –shishu> ?? And in what way the \< dramida shishu \> status > brings down the association of authorship of Saundarya lahari with > Shankara ? The nirguna brahma avaita end ? The same Acharya has > provided many Saguna –brahma upaasanaa margas also ! >
> 
> > Much obliged if the scholars help to clarify the above points. >
> 
> > 

> 
> > Dear Sastry, in my post regarding the SaundaryalaharI, I have not > referred to the dramiDashishu view at all. I had just mentioned that > even in the 17th century SaundaryalaharI was not considered, by great > SankarAdvaita followers such as NIlakaNThadIkshhita, to be a genuine > work of Adi Sankara.  
> > 

  
  
Ganesan  

