+++
title = "046 Dr. T. Ganesan"

+++
[[Dr. T. Ganesan	2014-07-25, 16:18:35 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/Di8AHCCYzl0)]]



Thanks for the suggestion.  
My point here is all these 'vijayam' texts belonging to these VedAnta schools are the same in portraying irrational and incongruous stories.  
  
Ganesan

  
  
  
  
On 25-07-2014 15:25, V Subrahmanian wrote:  

> 
> > 
> > Dear Sri Ganesan,  
>   
> In your reply to Sri Vidyasankar you say:  
>   
> //Be aware of the fact that these Sankaravijayam-s were not composed > several centuries ago, but were composed only after the 16th > century.//  
>   
> And in the above reply to Sri Sastry you say that the sumadhvavijaya > is inspired by the Sankaravijayam!! Evidently, you are unaware of the > fact that according to the Madhvas, the sumadhvavijaya was composed by > a contemporary of Madhva, Sri Narayana Pandita. And Madhva's period > is generally agreed to be 1238 - 1317/8 AD.  
>   
> [http://srivyasaraja.org/articles/apr11/AcharyaMadhvaAndHisImmediateDisciples_1.pdf](http://srivyasaraja.org/articles/apr11/AcharyaMadhvaAndHisImmediateDisciples_1.pdf)  
>   
> Also, it is believed that the mādhavīya shankaravijaya is only an > abridged version of a pre-existing, now not extant, elaborate work.
> Each chapter of the existing work says that it is a chapter in the > 'सङ्क्षेपजये’...  
>   
> regards  
> subrahmanian.v   
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 3. About \<Saundarya lahari –Acharya Shankaras work authenticity> > > ?? Who are these \< staunch followers of Shankara-advaita who did > > not consider Saundaryalahari as the work of Shankara> ?? An > > Acharya, who is acknowledged to have established a Shaarada Peetha > > at Kashmir and many Shakti-Peetha’s across India with main one at > > Kanchi, why should one doubt his capacity to compose a beautiful > > poem like Saundarya lahari, where Sri-Vidya, the \<Vedanta-Tantra - > > samucchaya and samanvaya has taken place ? \> The deep connection > > of Vedanta –Adviata and SriVidya – Srichakra Pooja paddhati is an > > esoteric practice, not meant for free for all forum debate. > > > > 
> > You seem to repeat again the very same views such as Sankara's > establishing the various maTha-s, the SrIcakrapUjA, etc., etc., *whose > veracity and rationality or otherwise we are now discussing and > wondering whether there is any textual authority or inscriptional > record.*  
> It appears from your response that there is no such question at all > and it is a fully accepted fact and about which none can question > !!!  
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > >  Dear Sastry, in my post regarding the SaundaryalaharI, I have not > > referred to the dramiDashishu view at all. I had just mentioned that > > even in the 17th century SaundaryalaharI was not considered, by > > great SankarAdvaita followers such as NIlakaNThadIkshhita, to be a > > genuine work of Adi Sankara > > > > 
> > 
> > 

