+++
title = "006 Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)	2014-04-02, 09:16:49 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/1bnC8vcmuUg)]]



Namaste



On exploring Srividya traditions and commentaries:



a) SriVidya traditional and other wise practices are seen in many cases as an undefined mix of Tantra –Yoga and Vedanta flaovurs ( in author preferred ways). The explanation of technical terms change across the works and within the work by context.



b) IF the query here is to seek a publication which one desires to use for ‘ Self learning by interpreting the text in their choice way’, it could be dangerous ; surely considered an out of tradition mode. I am aware of Sri Bhaskararaya Makhins statement that any one who learns from his writings can call him as their Guru. But then one need to be sure that the practitioner understands the text in a unified way and practices diligently.



 IF the query here is to seek a publication to assess the different models and modes of interpreting a text / guidance for practice in a historic context and connect it to ‘ living traditions as an audit of practice / historic record guidance compliance (?!) ’, well one is free to do it.



 It is considered as freewheeling model of study . It will not be the traditional ‘Tantra’ ( Technique for practice with a goal set for worship –realization of the Supreme). It will be ‘swa-tantra / swa-chhnada –tantra’ ( Personal Free volition in exploring the territory in an unbridled way ).



Regards

BVK Sastry



------------------------------------------------------------------------

No virus found in this message.  
Checked by AVG - [www.avg.com](http://www.avg.com)  
Version: 2014.0.4355 / Virus Database: 3722/7279 - Release Date: 04/01/14

