+++
title = "007 Dr. T. Ganesan"

+++
[[Dr. T. Ganesan	2014-04-02, 11:33:53 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/1bnC8vcmuUg)]]



On 02-04-2014 09:16, Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop) wrote:  
  
On exploring Srividya traditions and commentaries:  

a) SriVidya traditional and other wise practices are seen in many cases as an undefined mix of Tantra –Yoga and Vedanta flaovurs ( in author preferred ways). The explanation of technical terms change across the works and within the work by context.



  

Yes. This is true.  
Most of the commentators on the Saundaryalaharii were from south India and most of them post 15-16th century influenced by Advaita Vedanta.  
  
By all accounts it appears that originally Sriividyaa tradition is based on the Pratyabhijnaa philosophy.  
But one cannot miss the point that the Srividya, and especially the Sricakrapuujaa, has undergone a lot of modifications in the course of, approximately from 13th to 18th centuries, in its spread from the Kashmir to the south India.  
Its earlier version is found clearly in the NityashodasikaarNava with the commentaries of Sivaananda, Vidyaananda, etc. which is innocent of any Vedaanta (Advaita here) influence. One may refer to the excellent edition of these texts by the great Tantra/Agama scholar Sri VrajaVallabha Dviveda and published by the Sampurnanand Sanskrit University, Varanasi.  
  
One may also find the basic difference in the Sricakrapuujaa as expounded in the Subhagodaya, etc. of the same Sivaananda and the present procedure followed widely which has been popularised by the Parasuramakalasutra, etc. and by Sri Bhaskararaayamakhii.  
The ancient method of Sriicakrapuujaa described in the Subhagodaya apperas to be a simple one completely bereft of any of these Amnaayapuujaa, etc. and fully free from Advaita Vedaanta leanings.  
In fact the procedure explained in the Subhagodaya agrees very much with the Agamic one: worshipping the *aasana, muurti and muula* which is the very much the same followed in the Saiva Agama-s. The biijaakshhara for this worship is also different in the Subhagodaya and the present day Sriicakrapuujaa.  
Like that there are many differences in the tradition followed and expounded by Sivaananda and the Parashuraamakalpasuutra-Bhaskararaaya tradition that appears to be later (15-16th centuries ??).  
Interestingly, it is to be noted that Sivaannada lived in south India, Tamilnadu-Kerala in the 13-14th centuries.  
Another interesting point is that in the Subhagodaya Sivaananda prescribes drawing the Sriicakra daily for the worship with red powder/paste and he does not mention any permanent Sriicakra/Meru made of metal or stone.  
A deep study on the historical evolution and eventual transformation of the Srividyaa tradition (the Advaitic influence and especially the various Samkara Matha-s' influence on the sampradaaya and the enormous transformations effected, etc.) will definitely be a rewarding one.  
  
  
Ganesan  

> 
> > Namaste >
> 



