+++
title = "000 Dr. Shashibala"

+++
[[Dr. Shashibala	2017-05-03, 22:05:23 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/Dp8CFIcLWqc)]]



We night be intrested in the publication. Can discuss.

  

  

Sent from Samsung Mobile

  
  

-------- Original message --------

From: Mārcis Gasūns

Date:03/05/2017 8:58 PM (GMT+05:30)

To: भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्

Subject: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Re: Apte's Sanskrit Composition Sources

  

Namaste,

  

 It's good to so see so many lovers of Apte in one place.

In the meantime<https://yadi.sk/d/rjM_non63HcP5S> - draft of Russian translation of Apte.

  

M.  
  
On Sunday, 12 March 2017 15:58:30 UTC+3, Mārcis Gasūns wrote:

> 
> > 
> > Dear members, >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > There is a list of 41 documented (not aware if more are abbreviations > in Vaman Shivaram Apte, The student's guide to Sanskrit composition : > being a treatise on Sanskrit syntax. That is a book we've been > proofreading, translating to Russian and getting ready for print for > the last 4 years and I hope can finish in 2 years from now. As a > byproduct even an English (original) version in new layout with clear > print could be generated - is there any printing house interested in > bringing back theglory of Apte to paper without the dirt that was in > the old edition? I want to check textual references, but have none of > the hard copies required. To hunt for them I need to know where and > what to look at. What books have been scanned by DLI? What text's have > been OCRed and have a digital afterlife? Do not know if The student's > guide to Sanskrit composition is still used in India nowadays. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > A. R. stands for Anarghyarāghava. >
> 
> > 
> > Bg. „ Bhagavadgītā (Bombay Edition). >
> 
> > 
> > Bh. „ Bhartrihari II denoting Nitiśataka and HI Vairāgya- śataka > (Bombay Edition). >
> 
> > 
> > Bk. „ Bhattikāvya. >
> 
> > 
> > C. ,, Chānakyaśataka. >
> 
> > 
> > Dk. „ Daśakumāracharita, I denoting the first part, and II the second > and the Arabic figure the number of the story (Bom. Edition). >
> 
> > 
> > G. M. „ Ganaratnamahodadhi. >
> 
> > 
> > H. „ Hitopadeśa, the Arabic figures denoting the four parts in their > order (Bombay. Edition). >
> 
> > 
> > H. C. „ Harshacharita. >
> 
> > 
> > K. „ Bānā’s Kādambari (Bombay Edition), Arabic figure signifying the > number of the page. >
> 
> > 
> > Kāv. „ Kāvyaprakāśa. >
> 
> > 
> > Ki. „ Kirātārjuniyam. >
> 
> > 
> > Ku. „ Kumārasambhava (Calcutta Edition) >
> 
> > 
> > M. „ Mālavikāgnimitra (Bombay Edition). >
> 
> > 
> > Māl. „ Mālatimādhava (Bombay Edition). >
> 
> > 
> > Mb. „ Mahābhārata. >
> 
> > 
> > Mbh. „ Mahābhāshya. >
> 
> > 
> > Me. stands for Meghadūta. >
> 
> > 
> > Mk. „ Mrichchakatika. >
> 
> > 
> > Mn. „ Mudrārākshasa. >
> 
> > 
> > Mv. „ Mahāvīracharita. >
> 
> > 
> > Na. „ Naishadha. >
> 
> > 
> > Nig. „ Nāgānanda. >
> 
> > 
> > P. „ Panchatantra, the Roman figure denoting the number of the Tantra, > and Arabic figure the number of the story (Bombay Edition). >
> 
> > 
> > P. R. „ Prasannarāghava. >
> 
> > 
> > R. Raghuvans’a (Bombay Edition). >
> 
> > 
> > Rām. „ Rāmāyana. >
> 
> > 
> > Ratn. „ Ratnāvali (Calcutta Edition). >
> 
> > 
> > S’. „ Śakuntalā (Bombay Edition). >
> 
> > 
> > S’. B. „ Śānkarabhāshya. >
> 
> > 
> > S’i. „ Śiśupālavadha. >
> 
> > 
> > S. K. „ Siddhānta Kaumudi. >
> 
> > 
> > S. M. „ Śānkarāchārya’s Mohamudgara. >
> 
> > 
> > Su. „ Subhashitaratnākara. >
> 
> > 
> > U. „ Uttararāmacharita (Calcutta Edition). >
> 
> > 
> > V. „ Vikramorvaśīyam (Bombay Edition). >
> 
> > 
> > Vār. „ Vārtika of Kātyāyana. >
> 
> > 
> > Vās. „ Vāsavadatta. >
> 
> > 
> > V. B. „ Viddhaśālabhanjika. >
> 
> > 
> > Ve. „ Venisamhāra (Calcutta Edition). >
> 
> > 
> > Y. „ Yājnavalkya, where II denotes the Vyavahāra chapter. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Sincerely, >
> 
> > 
> > Marcis Gasuns >
> 
> > 

--  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.  

