+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2011-07-09, 03:17:04 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/eUVmRAyxY8E)]]



> Comment of Kalyanraman: It is not surprising that the subject of > Probability in Ancient India should result in the invocation of the > hobby-horse, AIT doctrine.  
>   
> I agree with Kazanas. Witzel's froth of 'scientific facts' do, in > fact, reveal the non-existence of any evidence at all for the > mainstream AIT doctrine.  
>   
> Thanks to Witzel for the service rendered in debunking the AIT > doctrine. This doctrine should disappear from all school text books.  
>   
> kalyanaraman

  

Mirror:<http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.com/2011/07/about-controversy-probability-in.html>

  

Kazanas’ comment on the controversy: ‘Probability in Ancient India’.

  

<http://www.docstoc.com/docs/84073172/kazanscommentProbablility-in-Ancient-India>

  

Reference: <http://www.docstoc.com/docs/84073836/Probabilityinancientindia> Probability in Ancient India: A debate

  

About the controversy : ‘Probability in Ancient India’.

  

N. Kazanas, 6 July 2011.

  

In the recent controversy about ‘Probability in Ancient India’ on the Internet I couldn’t but be surprised at the dignity with which Raju
replies to Witzel even though the latter yet again feels it necessary to deride and distort. Raju does see, however, Witzel’s usual trick of assigning a false position to his opponents and then attacking that. On the other hand one must feel grateful to Witzel since
his comments always reveal the non-existence of any arguments and solid evidences for the mainstream Doctrine of the AIT. This time he sneers at bona fide scientific research calling it “Antiquity
Frenzy” (perhaps unaware of anthropological evidences showing
that much of our knowledge, theoretical and technological, was
current in Mesolithic and Palaeolithic times) and then
dismisses the probable Ṛgveda date of 4000 BCE on “scientific facts”, as he calls them.

  

“The RV is full of horses and chariots; but horse-drawn
spokewheeled chariots were invented only around 2000 BCE (either in
the Ural steppes or in Mesopotamia, scholars disagree); and
the steppe animal, the horse (equus caballus), was absent in
South Asia until it was introduced from the steppes around
1800/1700 BCE (just as in Mesopotamia and Egypt).
Other(inscriptional, linguistic and archaeological) data point to composition of the RV around 1400-1000 BCE.” (25,6,2011.) This vedist
professor has not yet realised that there are no chariots of
the Egyptian, Mesopotamian or Urallic sort in the RV. The two words anas and ratha mean much the same, ‘car’ or ‘cart’. The ratha is never described as one- or two-seated vehicle (as were the neareastern and european chariots) but as three-seated and even as eight-seated aṣṭāvandhura, i.e. a mini-bus! But our learned professor carries on about near-eastern chariots and horses. And again deliberately ignores that the rigvedic cars are drawn by birds, by antelopes, by donkeys and mules and by oxen and very rarely by horses. In fact the only realistic race is in the 10^(th) Book and the car is drawn by an ox!

  

As for horse-remains, there are several found in the mature
Harappan phase, i.e. 2500-2100, and there is evidence of horses as far back as 4500 BCE. Moreover, there we do not find any increase of horse-remains after 1500 BCE and the alleged entry of horse-riding Aryans. Increased evidence of horses and chariots appears only after 300 BCE.

  

So Witzel’s “scientific facts” are mere froth. So are his
other date inscriptional, linguistic and archaeological; and I
dare him to produce one hard fact from these areas showing that the RV was composed 1400-1000 BCE. There is none.

  

On the contrary, all expert archaeologists from the 1980’s
agree that there is no evidence whatever of any entry of Aryans from 4500 to 600 BCE. The RV knows nothing of the Harappan cities, deserted or ruined, and their culture but the post-rigvedic texts do know of baked bricks, of statues and paintings, of cotton and wheat and other features of the Indus Sarasvati culture. Then, Genetics shows that there is no flow of genes into N-W India but, on the contrary the flow is out of India.

  

As I said, we must be grateful for Witzel’s interventions which
reveal so acutely the non-existence of any evidence at all for the mainstream Doctrine.

  

Kalyanaraman

  

  

<http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.com/>

<https://sites.google.com/site/kalyan97/indus-script-cipher>  
<https://sites.google.com/site/indianoceancommunity1/>  
<https://sites.google.com/site/bharatasahitya/>  

  

