+++
title = "010 S.Subrahmanya"

+++
[[S.Subrahmanya	2016-01-20, 12:53:33 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/We4pQ-DPChg)]]



  

If one were to look at journals like JAOS from the 1800's - one hardly finds many references. The references generally

list the original translated texts and maybe a few others secondary texts.

However, both in the US and Europe, with the expansion of the library system and inter-library loans of books, there is an increasing

number of secondary/tertiary cited referencs. So, it is basically one opinion, based on another opinion and so on.

WIth such pick and choose - anything can be written. Another issue is an author referencing his own writing as proven fact.

 ( for eg: Dr.Narahari Achar points this out in the case of Pingree)

Now with digitized papers available - it is easy to list hundreds of references.



Also, in US academia, with "publish or perish" mentality - and pressure to get tenure, a huge number of papers are published.

I remember seeing a recent article mentioning that more than 90% of these papers in social-studies/humanties are not referenced even once !.

Even a medical journal like the British Lancet has admitted that more than 50% of all its studies/stat based papers are bad science!.

  

We have to keep in mind that this "publishing paper in a peer-reviewed journal" has become a monster where the

editors/reviewers and publishers are gate-keepers that perpetuate ideological hegemony.

  

In India, because of a lack of strong library system and access to books -most scholars stick to original sources when they

write anything - and in that sense they are more reliable, easier to criticize and easier to identify mistakes.

  

Hopefully, with growing online presence and increasing digital documents access, a better system can be

developed/worked out to suit the Indian context.



regards

Subrahmanya

  

