+++
title = "001 Arun"

+++
[[Arun	2010-09-05, 07:35:29 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/zKT_xbvx1BE)]]



This is not a forum for long article on archeological evidence of  
Mahābhārata, but some points need attention of scholars. (1) Meanings  
of Sanskrit words continue to be same all over India and without any  
formal education, we can read original book as I have done at age of  
12. We need not wait for a foreigner to spoon feed with a selected  
verse with his translation and interpretation. (2) We should read it  
by harmonious construction with other texts and evidence, indicated in  
Chatuh-sūtrī-शास्त्र योनित्वात् । तत्तु समन्वयात् । The same Veda-  
vyāsa who had compiled Vedas and Purāṇas had also written Mahābhārata.  
(3) At start itself we may not assume everything in these books as  
false and search evidence. Even in archeology, final conclusion is  
based on inscription of text and interpretation in background of  
others. (4) Research should be impartial, not a war of civilizations  
as launched by Oxford against Vedas by Boden chair in 1831 and earlier  
forgeries for the purpose by Pargiter, William Jones etc. (5) The  
facts which are consistent with other texts of India and abroad and  
with traditions today are true. For interpretation of doubtful  
incidents in poetic manner, we can search for evidence. (5) All Greek/  
Roman historians from Herodotus to Megasthenes, Pliny, Arrian have  
written that India is only country where all people are original  
inhabitants. India is self sufficient in food and all matters and had  
never attacked any other country since 15,000 years (i.e. since 15,500  
BC). This word was omitted in later version of Megasthenes translated  
by McCrindle in 1927-now it reads-India had never captured other  
countries. That 15,000 was changed to 1500 BC as start of Vedic  
civilization of foreign Āryans by Maxmuller-there is no other evidence  
of this date. Within 1000 years, no Greek had heard about Āryan  
migration while writing scientific (?) history. (6) Another major  
forgery was done by shifting date of Āryabhaṭa from 360 to 3600 Kali.  
He could not have chosen 3600 year old base year for calculation which  
is impossible even for modern astronomy. (7) Nanda was 1500 years  
after birth of Parīkśita-changed to 1050 by Pargiter-पञ्चशतोत्तरं was  
changed to पञ्चाशतोत्तरं (यावत् परीक्षितम् जन्म यावत् नन्दाभिषेचनम्,  
तावत् वर्ष सहस्रं च ज्ञेयम् पञ्चशतोत्तरं). (8) After describing 14  
different Śakas, S.B. Dikśita (History of Indian Astronomy in Marathi,  
1896) declared that Śālivāhana śaka (78 AD) was the only śaka and  
linked it with Kashmir king Kaniṣka whose time has been given as 1294  
BC in Rājatarangiṇī. Is it merely a coincidence that all the kings who  
had started calendars have been declared fictitious despite 5000 pages  
on Vikramāditya himself, but Gupta period with only 6 lines  
inscription is made golden period? (9)To counter all texts of Greek-  
Roman and Indian about indigenous Indians, excavation was done only in  
Moinjodaro and Harappa with pre-conceived theory of Āryan migration  
from central India or east Europe. Tilak extended it to Arctic in 1909  
when Admiral Peary had reached north pole in same year and Āryabhaṭa  
also had written in 2742 BC that it was in water. Has anybody searched  
for archeological evidence for Āryan home in Europe or Arctic? (10)  
After excavation, a staff R.D. Banerji wrote an article about evidence  
of Vedic culture from that. He was immediately dismissed as aim was to  
prove non Vedic culture. Later on, he wrote history of Orissa. (11)  
That was major evidence for Mahābhārata story. In 3015 BC, Janamejaya  
had attacked Nāga rulers of Takśaśilā (Takśaka) in retaliation of  
murder of his father Parīkśita. Guru Govind Singhji had constructed a  
temple at place where Nāgas were defeated first. Places of mass  
killing were called Moin-jo-daro (place of dead), and Harappā (heap of  
bones). After a year of mass killings in revenge, Janamejaya repented  
and gave many grants. 5 such grants were published in Mysore Antiquary  
in 1901 after carefully breaking date portions of plates. Still, date  
survived in many and it was declared of Moghul rule. That was on  
27-11-3014 BC, when a solar eclipse had occurred. All inscriptions  
with 5-fold dates and astronomical verification can be seen on my  
[website-www.scribd.com/Arunupadhyay](http://website-www.scribd.com/Arunupadhyay), as ‘Janamejaya’. (12) With drying  
of Sarasvatī, Hastināpur was destroyed in floods and Nichakśu in 9th  
generation after Yudhiṣṭhira had to shift to Kausāmbī. There was 100  
years lack of rain in that region recorded in Durgā-saptaśatī (chapter  
11) etc. Then king of Vārāṇasī (Yudhiṣṭhira ?) took sanyāsa as  
Pārśvanātha and Jaina Yudhiṣṭhira śaka started in 2634 BC. This period  
of drying of Sarasvatī has been proved by massive archeological  
evidence (Kalyāṇaramaṇ). (13) Towns of Iraq are mentioned in Harivamśa-  
like Vajra (Basra). Archeological evidence of Ikśvāku (1-11-8576 BC)  
was found by records of his son Vikukśi (Ukusi) in Iraq called Kish  
chronicle dated as 8320 BC. (14) Dvārakā has already found under sea.  
(15) Evidence of accurate survey is proved by existence of ancient  
monuments as time zones separated by 60 intervals from Ujjain-e.g.  
Stonehenge of U.K. 780 west. All texts of astronomy indicate 4  
cardinal points separated by 900-which can be known only by accurate  
survey. In particular, location of gate by Brahmā to mark the point  
1800 east of Ujjain is mentioned in Vālmīki Rāmāyaṇa, Kiśkindhā kāṇḍa  
(40/54, 64). A pyramid still exists there. (16) Radioactive level of  
Mahābhārata period (3139 BC) was 3 times the normal as found by  
sequoia trees of California existing since 5500 years. That could be  
by nuclear war as 165 lakh persons had died in it compared to only 39  
lakh army. It can be by increased solar activity also. Whatever may be  
reason, it will reduce the estimate of age in carbon-dating by more  
than half. (17) Traditions of Rāmāyaṇa and Mahābhārata continue in  
different parts till today. Traditions of Kansa, Duryodhana, Gajapati  
remain in Orissa. Andhra is only place where farmers are called Reḍḍī.  
Naval chief of Vijayanagar was called Suparṇa-Nāyaka. And Pak strait  
is at south of it in region of Tāmraparṇī. All are based on the Vedic  
verse- एकः सुपर्णः स समुद्रमाविवेश स इदं भुवनं वि चष्टे । तं पाकेन  
मनसापश्यमन्तितस्तं, माता रेऴ्हि स उ रेऴ्हि मातरम् ॥ (ऋग् वेद १०/११४/४)  
अरुण कुमार उपाध्याय कटक 09437034172  



