+++
title = "010 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2016-07-30, 02:53:08 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/HWKIPJQF5_4)]]



  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: G S S Murthy \<[murt...@gmail.com]()\>  
To: [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} काचित् जिज्ञासा  

Date: Fri, 29 Jul 2016 11:16:44 +0530  
  

Dear scholars,

AS an aside to the discussion going on through this thread, may I express my unorthodox views?

Panini built a magnificent artificial structure to explain and expand Sanskrit as he knew. It has stood the test of time and will be there for long.

However, with the technology available through computers and programming, we could look at Sanskrit in a new way.

1\. Try to list usages of Sanskrit words in major classics like Ramayana, Mahabharata and Mahakavyas. It would be a gigantic data base. I believe the database will cover the vocabulary that is adequate enough for most purposes.

2\. Using techniques of data-analytics and data mining, arrive at rules that can be discerned through the usage.The rules arrived at would not be based on Paninian structure. It could be entirely different.

I believe such an approach is feasible although it may be a large and major project running over several years.

The sceptic may say, "Why waste our efforts when Panini has done it for us?" My answer is " We don't know. The project may come up with a simpler form of grammar and many may be attracted to Sanskrit. Sanskrit may become a dynamic, living language"

Scholars may like to give a thought to the idea.

Regards,

Murthy

On Fri, Jul 29, 2016 at 10:09 AM, Nagaraj Paturi \<[nagara...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> > 
> > How did this word 'prescriptive' enter as an unjustifiably pejorative > description of our classical grammars in India? >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > It is the excitement born of the newly introduced discipline > linguistics. The new initiates who included highly respectably learned > professors of the generation of my teachers, were enjoying their > initiation into the new discipline through their repeated satires and > fun makings about the 'prescriptive' nature (purely based on their > wrong perception of them as prescriptive) of the classical grammars. > One such highly learned fine linguist did it so often that I was not > able to help reacting. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Once he was at it again during one of his guest lectures in my > department. He was addressing the post-graduate students of Telugu and > started his gleeful fun makings and satires about Balavyakaranamu of > Chinnaya Suri (of 19th century) being prescriptive. ( This book, in > fact, like AA, has only descriptive rules for classical Telugu which > was the standard dialect of those diglossia days,with a very few > prescriptive statements in his own vrittis.) >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Incidentally this linguist was the language advisor of a Telugu > newspaper and during his tenure in this rolehe did a commendable work > of writing a style manual for that daily. That book has very clear > imperative sentences as rules. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > That day, Iraised my handand asked him "Sir, can you explain why the > rules in this book are imperative sentences?" The gigantic scholar , a > great sahridaya as he was , paused for a while in introspection and > then said, " Yes, I am able to see your point. Now I am able to see > that just as my book is meant for the standardization of the language > of that daily, Suri was also standardizing the standard variety of his > times." >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Never later I heard him making fun of Suri. That was probably also > because highly learned scholars of those days were greathuman > beingstoo. >
> 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > On Fri, Jul 29, 2016 at 9:23 AM, Shrinivasa Varakhedi > \<[shri...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  
> > 
> > 







  
  

  

--  

My web site : <http://murthygss.tripod.com/index.htm>  
and also my Sanskrit blog :

<http://simplesanskrit.blogspot.com/>

[  
](http://simplesanskrit.blogspot.com/)

*[http://gssmurthy.blogspot.com](http://gssmurthy.blogspot.com/)*

--  

You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.  
  
  

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**New Testosterone Booster Takes GNC by Storm**  
There’s a new supplement at GNC that’s got executives interested. Find ...  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/579bc92588403492509cast01vuc)<http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/579bc92588403492509cast01vuc>

