+++
title = "007 Dr.BVK Sastry (Gmail)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (Gmail)	2013-09-07, 23:46:29 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/sDJvRaqyoys)]]



Namaste



1. From the context of the question raised, the connection of the word may have been linked with the ‘ popular use’ in the ‘ ISKON’ context, ‘Maa-yaa- Vaa-din’, which refers to the school of Vedanta interpreters projecting world as an ‘ illusion’.



Please refer to the Introduction of ‘Bhagavad-Gita As it is’ - by Sri.La. Prabhupada.



The context of Gita sloka explaining \<maa-yaa> as \< Vishnu-maa-yaa = the limited knowledge / a-jnana \> may not altogether fit the context of this deliberation. Same way with the meaning of this word in Rig-Veda, which comes in several other contexts.



The word ‘Maa-yaa’ is translated as ‘ Illusion’, unreal’ for this explanation. Extending this thought in to the polemical discussions, with ‘apparently simplistic and popular translations’, the technicality of Shankara school of Advaita as the final conclusion of the ‘Prasthana Traya’ is marked as a school of ‘Maa-yaa vaa-din’.
The technical difference between Samskrutham words - ‘Mithyaa’ – ‘Maa- yaa’ are constructed per preference by different schools to critique other schools.



This pointer has relation to the earlier separate thread of ‘How Koshas explain Samskrutham words’. When (a) the ‘Paribhashaa’ of Vedanta ( or any Shaastra) is meddled with ‘ Kosha’ meanings and on the top of it (b) secondary, erroneous, short translations of the technical vocabulary are missed in the deliberations, the outcome is any thing that is farther away from the true position of Shaastra.



(Please read the long –aa part properly so that the word Shaastra = Technical discipline of study is not confused to ‘ Shastra = Weapon.)



2. In the present case, in the response part I do not understand how the \< Maa-yaa> part of the word \< Maa-yaa vadin> was confused and connected to \< mAyan>- civilization related discussion ! And how some one might have missed reading this in to \<maya \>- the Vishwkarma, the supposed author of Vastu shaastra, the father in law of Ravana ?!



This kind of inaccurate phonetic reading of the Samskrutham words and word-splits do pop up their head in many other internet forums also !




Regards

BVK Sastry



------------------------------------------------------------------------

No virus found in this message.  
Checked by AVG - [www.avg.com](http://www.avg.com)  
Version: 2013.0.3392 / Virus Database: 3222/6644 - Release Date: 09/06/13



