+++
title = "005 Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)	2015-06-13, 21:04:44 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/6_Trp-FUoU0)]]



Namaste Joh ji



There have been many responses to your post. Here is my pointed point wise response.



A) In Hindu religion there is concept of Chitra gupta (or angel by that name) who keeps the record of all the past karmas of souls.

^^^^^^^^

BVK Sastry: The concept of ‘Chitra-Gupta’ as an ‘ Assistant Time-Sheet and Event record Keeper’ ( = Kala Karma itivrutta) is a permeating concept in the Sanatana Dharma documents aka ‘Hinduism Religion documents’ . The record keeping relates to ‘Dharma Activity’ and not about mundane eating-sleeping –earning issues. What constitutes a ‘Dharma’ activity worth record keeping for a life-time over view and audit is an outcome of the key thought in Isavasya upanishat : Krato smara, krutam smara:: Remember- Recall –Review events your sacred deeds and what all you have done. In this sense, one can iconize
‘chitra-gupta’ as an external watch-tower deity, the nine-eternal witnesses of Dharma, the God in the heart, the chitra-guta angel deity on the shoulders.



The word is used in some vedic passages, in Manu smriti (Dharma Shastra works) and Mahabharata . i.e. the concept is seen in the pre-christian era time line. The rituals offer a ‘ bali / offering’ to Chitra and Chitra-Gupta’ deities.



Literal meaning of the word would be ‘ Embedded in the Image’, ‘ A picture hidden (=gupta) in the picture’. Seeing it calls for a deeper and focused vision.

The word ‘gupta’ is last name for a specific Varna community, according to Dharma Shastra.



The ‘Kayastha’ community of India traces their lineage and proclaims their affinity to Chitragupta. (<http://www.chitragupt.co.uk/> ) . Kayasthas were professional record keepers in hindu society .
Chitragupta ('rich in secrets' or 'hidden picture') is a Hindu god assigned with the task of keeping complete records of actions of human beings on the earth. Upon their death, Chitragupta has the task of deciding heaven or the hell for the humans, depending on their actions on the earth. Chitragupta Maharaj (Chitragupta the King) is the patron deity of Kayasthas, a Hindu caste of India. He is the son of Lord Brahma and holds a fairly special place in the Hindu pantheon because of the order of his birth.





\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*



B) Is it possible to see the past record of the individual with atindriya Jn\~aanam?

^^^^^^^^

BVK Sastry: Answer is Yes. If an individual is having ‘ateendriya –jnanam’ one can see through the curtain of time –through the past and future. The fall out of this will be deeply connected with the concepts of Karma and Free-will (Datta-swaatantrya / Daiva /Purushakara /
understanding Gita : 18-13 ).



\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*



C) Has any sage, holy man or yogi of Hindu religion tried to read the record of the individual who approached him to resolve the difficult situation (illness, accident, loss of money or life or other problems) in his life? Was any cure recommended? And tried and correct results were obtained?

^^^^^^^^

BVK Sastry: The answer is Yes. There are historical records, religious beliefs and narratives on holy men /Yogi’s reading through the ‘ past lives and future path’ of beings. Buddhists and Jains also have a detailed track record on this point.

The cause of suffering has been identified and cures have been prescribed. And there are inscriptional evidences throughout India for such miracles of yogi’s. One such would be the life incident in the Sri Ramanuja and the king of Karnataka. Another incidence is from Sri Madhvacharya ( story of bhootaraja). And many personal narratives can be provided by devotees.



As a study discipline, the ‘ path way to take a peak in to the past and future’ is provided by Yoga -Patanajali ( 3-16 to 19) . Gita documents it in Chapter 4 –Sloka 5 and 6. 



What was possible for someone in the past and shown as a continuity for over millennia, using Yoga as the tool, would also be possible for any one willing to go through that regime.



I do not have an answer for the fall out question that you may come up like : Why such a Yoga tradition got lost ? How can I /We the Indian /global society re-invent and re-engineer it ?. The seeking on this path is the seeking of right understanding of Yoga and Samskrutham, both of which have been molested badly for over three hundred years – in India and globally, by taking the colonial exit to dump Parashara, Panini and Patanjali.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*



I hope this information helps.

Regards

BVK Sastry





------------------------------------------------------------------------

No virus found in this message.  
Checked by AVG - [www.avg.com](http://www.avg.com)  
Version: 2015.0.5961 / Virus Database: 4355/9990 - Release Date: 06/10/15



