+++
title = "018 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2017-12-07, 08:51:32 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/ih6_T_qk3fo)]]



Namaste



On \< of bhavat and the use of yuṣmad? I will think about the possibility. \>



1. Technically , ‘yushmad’ and its derivative form ‘ tvam’ comes under the category of ‘Sarvanama’- Universal noun/ pronoun applicable to all contexts where the speaker addresses the other person ( Respect or no respect).



 Again, ‘bhavat’ - if it is to be treated as a derivative from the root ‘ bhoo’ (to be) with a participle ( Krit) to yield the ‘ pratipadika form’- bhavat, which becomes a ‘ naama-pada’ ( and not a sarva-naama), capable of taking on ‘ gender specificity as masculine /feminine – bhavaan - bhavatee , the grammar technicality is different between the two shabda-roopas. Due to this root ‘bhoo’ embedded in ‘ bhavat’, all the meanings of the bhoo dhatu get inherited to the use of bhavat with the modifications from krit pratyaya. This does not happen in the sarvanama- yushmat’. 



2. The rule for use of ‘madhyama-purusha’ for kriyaapada by rule ‘ bhavadyoge na madhyamah’ sheshe prathamah – may be a rule to look for more clarity in this.

 ‘ Tvam gacchasi’ – bhavaan gacchati’ yields different intentions and communication. 



3. How then to explain the Gita usage \< अपरं **भवतो** जन्म परं जन्म विवस्वत: । कथमेतद् विजानीयां **त्वमा**दौ प्रोक्तवानिति \> ?

 May be the philosophers and commentators need to explain why Arjuna sees Krishna in the first part as ‘ Respectfully – You’ and in second part as ‘ ( just) You’.

 Unless one wants to wash off the issue as a slang and loose usage in dialogue (Sambhaasanam) or One desires to find the ‘hidden treasure’ in the use of two different terms in the same breath by Arjuna ??



Surely, technicalities of Samskruth Language have a bearing on these rules and look for whose word rules the standards of Samskruth: Grammarian or Poet.



Look forward for scholars input on this observation.



Regards

BVK Sastry



