+++
title = "020 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2018-07-01, 21:06:38 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/a-ggemk_yks)]]



Dear List:

Can some one help me understand the fundamental issue, whether this situation is due to the following:

a. That post-colonial Sanskrit Scholarship at India has nothing better to offer in the field of Global Scholarship to do research for
students, who want to go abroad and find ways to learn- apply – find utilization for Sanskrit?

b. That Indian students feel that that they have nothing to learn from post colonial Indian scholars guiding them at Universities ?

c. That India has no possibility of gainful Government / Social employment for University graduates compared to a ‘Gurukul output’ who can find good livelihood in the domain of ‘religion-ritual practice and service’ ?

d. That the student has nothing-else to do but do a Ph.D. to keep themselves occupied ?

e. When I was growing-up in India, all top students went to Engineering, Students who did not get admissions accredited themselves with 2 yrs of Biology courses and then then went to Medical Schools. Folks who could not get admissions continued their pure science degree (B.Sc., M.Sc.).

Students who could not get in Science course went to Art's (B.A., M.A. ..... etc). At that time majority of students in Arts discipline were Females.  

 **My question to student is why do they have to depend on someone else to tell them what research to do ?**

***My honest opinion***: It is the duty of student ( = विद्यार्थि)
to have the genuine desire and keen focus on the utility application of learning to find ‘अर्थ’ ( purpose and wealth) from the ‘ विद्या’ (= methodology, education process) ? If they have this then they do not need to go further.  

Personally, I would recommend the "Ekalavya Model" of study to achieve excellence.

It is really disturbing for me personally, when I see posts requesting the BVP Group to suggest the topic for their research.Whatever happened to the recommended practice of "अथातो ब्रह्म जिज्ञासा" and ‘तपसा ब्रह्म विजिज्ञासस्व’ ! How pathetic !!? Student has to have a sincere desire to learn and a supporting society to practice the learning to get a good livelihood. If this is not there, then none of their efforts will ever bear any fruits.

I understand that there are many Sanskrit Universities in India (State run and Deemed), the elite scholars need to think for themselves and address this issue by themselves, for preserving what has given them the livelihood and status.

Best wishes & regards

Dr Yadu

  

  





To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().



