+++
title = "000 Dr. Pravesh Vyas"

+++
[[Dr. Pravesh Vyas	2016-04-01, 19:40:33 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/SVLp-fe84LM)]]



---------- Forwarded message ----------  
From: "Pankaj Jain" \<[pj...@unt.edu]()\>  
Date: 31-Mar-2016 7:13 AM  
Subject: \[DANAM-L\] DANAM CFP & Phone Call  
To: "Dharma Academy of North America ([www.DANAM-web.org](http://www.DANAM-web.org))" \<[dan...@mail.cas.unt.edu]()\>  
Cc:  
  

From: **Graham Schweig** \<[gsch...@cnu.edu]()\>  

Call for Papers DANAM 2016 San Antonio

DANAM usually holds four or five panels on Friday. One Book Review Session and an additional panel on Saturday:



The themes for DANAM 2016 Symposium, are:



(1) “Death, Birth, and Rebirth in an Interdisciplinary Philosophical andTheological Perspectives”



This theme aims to explore broadly death, birth, andrebirth as themes treatedin the range of global religious traditions, ancientand modern, analyzed and explained in accord with one or more disciplines incultural and historical, philosophical andtheological/religious studies. Paperproposals may engage any geographical location or historical period, either bytextual study or other forms of cultural study. Priority will begiven tofocused studies promising to deal specifically with texts (or artifacts of artand architecture, music and ritual, drama and oral poetry) in which one birthor multiple birthpossibilities are treated explicitly, even argued over againstalternative accounts of post-death experience. It is not necessary to focus entirely on the Dharma traditions, providing the approach is a comparative one and there is engagement with other ancient or classical traditions, and vice versa.

CONTACT:

Jonathan Edelmann

[jonathan...@ufl.edu]()





(2) **“Conceptualising the ‘Self’ and ‘I’ in the Dharma Traditions”**

CONTACT:

Purushottama Bilimoria

[pbili...@gtu.edu]()** **

This overarching theme will engage with the questions:

· 'Who am I?"

· "What is this "I", the self we seem to refer (back to) in our daily reflections and utterances? "I think I am right."; "I did this" ; "I said this"; "I have this pain, doctor".

Two philosophical questions about personal identity have been high on the list in contemporary debates, namely:

 I. What are the logically necessary and sufficient conditions under which we can say that a person, at a later time is, indeed, the same person that he/she was at an earlier time?



What evidence or grounds do we have for saying this?



 II. Are the theories that proceed on the basis of bodily identity, any more successful than some of classical theories that proceed on very different ontological presuppositions or postulates, and vice versa?



We invite paper proposals on these themes from various methodological perspectives including Philosophy of Religion, Theology, Ritual Studies, Textual Studies, Contemplative Studies, and related areas. Comparative focus will be admirably welcomed.

Presenters will be expected, at the least, to address one or a number of the framing issues taken up in context of Indian or Inter Dharma religions, which may be stated in the following terms:

· Is there a singular idea of the self – the referent of this elusive "I" - in the Dharma traditions, in one or a number of the traditions? There appears from the history and literature (theology, philosophy, anthropology) to be a variety of competing ideas on the nature of the self, and the related question of *personal identity* that the tradition has had to deal with, and bring together under a unitary conception.

· **The question on personal identity asks: what is it that accounts for continuity even contiguity of the identity possessing the "I-claims" over a duration*,* a life-time, in the after-life? Not until the emergence of the conception of atman*/puruṣa* – as transcendental self in Hindu darśanic philosophy and discrete timeless *jīva* in Jainism – that a stable unitary ontology is settled upon.

· But, again, this view creates problem for the mundane experiential self, its consciousness and subjective self-understanding: who or what is the "I" in our waking life, in the story we tell about ourselves (or harbour within us) and in the experience of others?

· The question of rebirth and the survival of the person: which person?



So were we to transpose the same set of questions for claims about the continuity or re-constitution of emergently the same identity in an after-life, over cycles of rebirth and re-death, how would this pan out?

· Who, if anyone, reincarnates or is reborn?

· What empirical evidence is there for this, or even possible (since the threshold of all sensory and mental input is blocked upon death of the individual)?

· Why does the memory of the identity and experiences of the *purvajanma* (previous birth) not re-ignite in the supposed next birth as they do when one wakes in the morning after falling into deep slumber?

· Can the recollections of those who do claim to "remember" their past lives credibly believed in?

· It is even more problematic in the Buddhist case where there the doctrine of no-self (*anātman*) would seem to mitigate against the possibility of an uninterrupted continuity of personal identity (problematic as it is in a given empirical life) in an after-life *lebenswelt**. How do we address this?*

**

Graham M. Schweig

Chair of the Steering Committee

Dharma Academy of North America

-

Graham M. Schweig

Professor

Philosophy & Religious Studies

Asian Studies Faculty

Christopher Newport University

1 Avenue of the Arts

Newport News, Virginia 23606

Dept. Secretary: [757.594.8827](tel:757.594.8827)

Office Direct: [757.594.7959](tel:757.594.7959)

Office Fax: [757.594.7349](tel:757.594.7349)

[gsch...@cnu.edu]()

<http://www.cnu.edu/phil/>

Senior Editor,*Journal of Vaishnava Studies*

  

  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
DANAM-L mailing list  
[DAN...@mail.cas.unt.edu]()  
<https://mail.cas.unt.edu/mailman/listinfo/danam-l>  
  

