+++
title = "001 VKG"

+++
[[VKG	2011-08-22, 07:41:41 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/4Y811U58z4o)]]



Pranaam.  
  
We also understand from old scholars's averment, that Kaashakrutsna  
Vyakarana is more suited to Atharva Veda Texts,more so in the case of  
Braahmana Grantha.  
  
One eager scholar collected these from old libraries. Now, Lakshya  
Lakshana Samanvaya is due.  
  
As I looked at a sample, it was quite interesting to note that; simple  
Forms (Roopaani) such Prathama Vibhakti BahuVacahana; it is quite Easy  
to correlate. As We are brought up in the Panineeya Vyaakarana fore  
ground; the forms, which seem as different can be easily understood,  
with these exceptions.  
  
(As rightly mentioned, pre- panineeya grammarians can help us bridge  
the gap to connote different words.)  
  
100 years (Divya Varsha) of Upadesham in Aindra Vyaakarana, naturally  
relate to Pratipaada Paatha; which is also inevitable at many places  
and Avyaapti factor to generate different Shabdas in Paanineeya  
Vyaakarana. Gana Paatha and the system of Aakruti Gana are meant for  
this factor alone.  
  
Some of the regular rules are optional in that Vyakarana.  
Ex1: Raama + (J)as = Raamaas(h)राम, जस् - रामाः अथवा रामासः  
Alternative: Raama+ S(ut)+(J)as= Raamaasas(h)  
  
Ex2: मधु, ङस् - मधुनः, मध्वः। अत्र नुमागम विकल्पः, तेन यण् प्राप्नोति।  
  
It is pointed out by them that, the concept of Yan Aadesha itself is  
contextual not regular. It could be Other Aagama. उवङ् इयङ्,  
पूर्वसवर्णादेशः.  
  
These type of simple set of alternative rule base to Vyakarana/  
Saahitya Students in advanced stage will help them understand the  
perspective of Vaidika/ Praacheena Bhaasha.  
  
Regards  
VKG  
  
On Aug 22, 12:22am, "[girav...@juno.com]()" \<[girav...@juno.com]()\> wrote:  
\> August 21, 2011 Respected Scholars, Namaskar! Indra VyAkaraNa and Chandra VyAkaraNa There is an interesting reference to the grammar of Sanskrit in the book, &ldquo;On the Aindra School of Sanskrit Grammarians, &ldquo; by A.C.Burnell---in 1608 a Tibetan Lama TArAnAtha compiled a very remarkable history of Buddha&rsquo;s teaching in India, in which he, more than once alluded to the Indra grammar. In his account of PANini, he states that though it was said in Tibet that Indra VyAkaraNa was earlier, this must be held of the region of the gods and not of Aryadesha. He added that according to the knowledge of Pundits the Chandra-VyAkaraNa agrees with PANini and the KalApa with the Indra VyAkaraNa ( I do not have idea about the truth in this). However my question is this-------------In the praise of (PANini) VyAkaraNa, the often narrated story is of Brihaspati teaching Indra for thousands of years without end in the foresight. Is Indra in Brihaspati-Indra story the same as author of Indra VyAkaraNa or different? Does Indra VyAkaraNa exist today? Was it PrePANinian VyAkaraNa? PANini mentioned the names of at least 10 grammarians before him. The list of Pre-PANinian grammarians appear to be slightly different in different references. Was Indra included in it? Let me have fortune to increase my knowledge through valuable opinions of scholars of bvparishat. Thanks. N. R. Joshi.  

\> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
\> Penny Stock Jumping 3000%  

\> Sign up to the #1 voted penny stock newsletter for free today!<http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3141/4e515b3e7265f7bf5f6st02vuc>

