+++
title = "004 Dr.BVK Sastry"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry	2011-08-23, 09:07:44 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/4Y811U58z4o)]]



Namaste  
  
On this interesting topic of 'Pre-Paninian Samskrutha-Vyakarana  
paddhati' I have some specific questions placed below. May i seek  
scholarly inputs on each of the issue please? Thanks in advance for  
the help:  
  
Question 1: When 'Vyakarana'is referred to as 'Vedanga'and so used in  
tradition, which of the eight vyakarana ( and 140 or so commentaries  
in relation to it) is to be taken as the anchor?  
  
(Note: The word 'tradition' here is meant to cover the following:  
Muni traya tradition of Panini-Katyayana Patanjali, who recognize  
'Veda'as Apaurusheya ; Poorva and Uttara meemaamsa Darshana Shastra  
tradition anchored to Vyasa which recognize 'Veda'as Apaurusheya;  
Nyaya-Vaisheshika darshana which looks at Veda as 'Ishwara Vaani', but  
still is anchored largely to Paninian tradition; Traditional  
Grammarians schools which brings in views of Bhartruhari et al.)  
  
Question 2: When Vykarana is one of the six vedangas per tradition,  
how the rest five look at Vyakarana ? - as a Vedanga or historical  
language, which can be described using any alternate grammar rule  
mix ?  
(Note : Again Veda- apaurusheyatva is an integrally linked issue with  
rest five vedangas. If the views on Vyakarana changes, the relatd  
views from other vedangas need to be explored. So also are the views  
from the upaveda and practicing traditions.)  
  
Question 3 : Do we have any tradition of using the grammars of other  
schools to explain out the documents of veda in its entirety, beyond  
(statistically ) insignificant forms from the available texts ?  
  
Note: The major writings of Samskrutham ( aka Sanskrit by western  
schools) by the great doyens of philosophical schools - Acharya  
Shankara, Ramanuja, Madhva use Paninian grammar as the anchor to  
explain the technicalities of Vedic passages. Probably it is only Sri  
Madhvacharya who brings in Hanumat-vyakarana which is supposedly not  
listed in the éight'vyakaranas being discussed here . This seems a  
little odd. If only Panini school survived in relation to Veda to the  
exclusion of all other schools of grammar, what reason can be  
attributed to it ?  
  
Question 4 : What is the fundamental paradigm that is being adopted  
here in the discussion on Language - Grammar Association? IS grammar  
rule a generator ( of words), Organizer ( of existing Vocabulary),  
Destroyer / Filter /Cleanser of incorrect vocabulary in relation to  
language of Vedic documents?  
  
Note: If Veda is apaurushya darshan, then grammar is to accept the '  
given word' and accommodate it using the rules. This is for the '  
yajnika'prayojana of Veda- Viniyoga. Patanjali uses the argument  
(Vibhaktim kurvanti). The vyakarana rule is not for approving the  
rightness of the vedic word ! This is the Paninian stand on Vedic  
vocabulary. The grammar rules accommodate the vedic word; but do not  
regulate it. If Veda is NOT APAURUSHEYA Darshana, then grammar ( of  
specific periods) can be used to CORRECT and RECONSTRUCT The Texts (-  
which is the primary argument of PIE / Historicity schools). The  
tritional schools need to explain the histroic foot prints of  
Samskrutham; and PIE schols need to prove beyond doubt that there is  
NO POSSIBILITY OF APAURUSHEYA LANGUAGE , which is a deliberation  
related to Language as a thought expression manifestation as sound-  
sequence structures and socially accepted. These deliberations in  
current period are in its infancy, even after Noam Chomsky et al.  
Traditional schools have not explained using modern language  
terminology, in a satisfactory way on why Acharyas need Aparusheyatva  
of Veda as an anchor for 'Brahma Jijnaasaa / Vedanta Darshana'.Unless  
this issue is sorted out, rest of the debates are not going to go  
beyond personal opinionated writing. The quoting of Prof. George  
Cardona does not over rule the traditional authenticity of Patanjali.  
Even Prof. Cardona, if i remember correct, in one such discussion  
maintained the line 'Muni-Traya pramana / Shishta paddhati' as the  
line not to be crossed.  
  
Regards  
BVK Sastry  
  
On Aug 22, 12:46pm, Shrisha Rao \<[sh...@dvaita.org]()\> wrote:  



