+++
title = "008 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2012-04-27, 19:53:31 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/tUbro-CgG00)]]



Namaste:  

  

Thank you for sharing the information.

  

I have some generic issues with the following statements and hopefully some scholars share their expert views and Chanel the corrective action"

  

a. \>Atiraatra Vidhi has been formulated by Manduka Rushis, its difficult

  
to write about the procedure here.\<  

  

Is this because we do not know or is this a clever way for trying to hide our ignorance?  

  

b. \>The Nirdheshaka has to be well versed in Yaaga Sutras which requires hundreds of years of Chaturveda Adhyayana, Tantra Sutra perfection, study the reports of previous Yaagas that has been Earthed after completion of Yaaga.\<

  

With this statement are we not cleverly trying to cover-up our own ignorance !? Essentially, above statement admits the impossible goal of studying for anyone's lifetime. (Humanly impossible).  

  

Both of the above statements 100% corroborate with the "Information Theory" Science. That states, "Information that is certain at the beginning tends to become uncertain with the passage of time"  

  

Rather than going into the mathematical model and explanation one can illustrate the point by with the help of Pyramids. People who constructed them knew exactly how to construct them, however, that specific information is lost and we really do not know the entire procedure. Present day engineers are still trying to figure out the puzzle.  

  

The progression of Information Theory was a strand for curious mind that classified the entire information as pieces of "BITS" which could then be re-evaluated by improving the Signal to Noise ratio (S/N).

  

  

We all know that all Vedic Suuktaa's have R^iShi, devataa, and chhanda, biut no one wants to talk about the viniyoga aspects. (Utility of that sukta).

  

Shaunaka in bR^hdevataa states -

  

aviditvaa R^iShiM chha.ndo devataaM yogameva ca \|  
yo.adhyaapayejjapedvapi paapiyaajjaayate tusaH \|\|  

  

I have a sincere request to all scholars who can help despairer the puzzle (in the form for bits) of that hidden knowledge rather than becoming or remaining "vidaa.nti (as - tadarvi paakarasam yathaaH)" and gloat and glorify the "vedanta" and forget why our ancestors possibly documented their observations in the form of Veda (knowledge).  

  

Looking for guidance and possible leads about individuals who may be in a position to help me get in touch with those individuals.  

  

As I have mentioned on this list before that I am on the EXIT Ramp of my life span and what legacy are we going to leave for the future generations. We can just gloat about the Sanskrit scholarship, Vedanta and lock ourselves in the ivory towers with total disregard to the Utility of Veda for practical application at the present.  

  

With a sincere appeal to scholars for help,  

  

Dr Yadu  

  

  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**From:** Vijnasu \<[heman...@gmail.com]()\>  
**To:** भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत् \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
**Sent:** Thursday, April 26, 2012 11:02 PM  
**Subject:** {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Re: Information about Atiratram  



--  
निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
to subscribe go to the link below and put a request  
<https://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat/subscribe>  
To unsubscribe from this group, send email to  

bvparishat+[unsub...@googlegroups.com]()  
  
  

