+++
title = "005 Dr. P. Ramanujan"

+++
[[Dr. P. Ramanujan	2012-09-20, 12:53:21 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/VebkeMLc1A0)]]



Dear Scholars!  
  
Pranams.  
  
Prof. Dipak Bhattacharya is spot ON.  
  
The Late Mahamhopadhyaya Panditaraja DT Tatacharya once wrote that modern  
Sanskrit scholars rarely read the contents of Shastraic texts but claim  
proficiency due to what he called as:  
प्रिफेसुपण्डिताः केचित्  
केचिदिण्डेक्सुपण्डिताः ।  
That is, some are scholars of 'prefaces' and some others of 'indices' of  
good publications of original treatises!  
  
I have a feeling that using ICT developments judiciously, one may, today,  
be able to interact with traditional experts in audio/video modes and  
obtain near-gurukula experience, if they care to. Short of गुरोः  
पादोपसङ्ग्रहण, one may be blessed with  
तलस्पर्शिज्ञानम्.  
  
With regards  
  
Ramanujan  
On Thu, Sep 20, 2012, Dipak Bhattacharya \<[dbhattach...@yahoo.com]()\>  
said:  

  
\> Fine! Dr. Narayanan’s reply is well  
meant but the printing आब्धर्लङ्घितdoes  
not show the actual reading  
अब्धिर्लङ्घित।Again, while one admits the  
efficacy of  
deep learning suggestively praised by Murāri, the majority of Sanskrit  
scholars  
do not have a ten year Gurukula training. There are many ways of going  
deep.  
Many of the non-Gurukula scholars are acclaimed authorities and it is  
their  
voice that is heard. One may like it or not but it will be just keeping  
one’s  
eyes shut out from reality not to see that the best days of traditional  
training belong to an unretrievable past.  
To do away with  
misunderstanding I should state that before and after leaving the  
University, I  
did have decades of traditional training that is in my blood. I stated the  
hard  
reality without malice.  
Best  

DBFrom: narayanan er \<[drerna...@yahoo.com]()\>  

  
To: "[lalitaa...@lalitaalaalitah.com]()"  
\<[lalitaa...@lalitaalaalitah.com]()\>; "[hnbh...@gmail.com]()"  
\<[hnbh...@gmail.com]()\>  
Cc: "[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()" \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
Sent: Thursday, 20 September 2012 11:34 AM  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्}  
Re: Ten years Gurukula training  
  
  
अयि भो आचार्याः,  
एष एवाशयो ध्वन्यतेऽत्र,  

यथा-देवीं वाचमुपासते हि  



Dr. P. Ramanujan  
AD-IHLC,  
C-DAC, Bangalore (KP)  
[ra...@cdac.in]()  
080-25246350, 66116444 (Off.-Dir.)  
  
  
  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
  
This e-mail is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may  
contain confidential and privileged information. If you are not the  
intended recipient, please contact the sender by reply e-mail and destroy  
all copies and the original message. Any unauthorized review, use,  
disclosure, dissemination, forwarding, printing or copying of this email  
is strictly prohibited and appropriate legal action will be taken.  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
  

