+++
title = "001 Dr ramanath"

+++
[[Dr ramanath	2009-12-10, 21:45:17 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/_G1fJd5yAKs)]]



Dear scholar,  
Yes as a Buddha-vacana the words of lord Buddha ( PAli Tripitaka),  
has been considered as Apaurusheya but only in the sense of words of  
Lord Buddha. In latter period when Buddhism devided into sampradAya,  
one of the Buddhist school accepts this concept ,. YogAcAra-  
VijnAnavAdins such as DngnAga and his successors do not accept because  
they belong to the logical traditions-NyAyAnusArinao VijnAnavAdinah.  
They differ from the scriptural tradition- AgamAnusArino  
VijnAnavAdins. see Obermiller, The Sublime Science of the Great  
Vehicle to Salvation, p.99. Indeed, Buddha-vacana is considered as  
Apaurusheya. But here the term Apaurusheya may be use only in the  
sense of words of Lord Buddha.  
DingnAga emphasised that a 'word' had no validity without reason. He  
says that "the statements of credible persons are inference insofar as  
they have the common character of not being false. Present in the  
object of inference and in what is similar to it, and absent in their  
absence. DingnAga contemporary Bhartrhari strongly defends the  
validity of 'words'. He argues that there are two types of texts,  
namely, revealed (sacred) texts and man made texts. The revealed texts  
mention about religious and moral duties which can neither be  
apprehended nor discarded by sensation or reasoning . On the other  
hand, the man made texts can be confirmed by sensation or reasoning.  
In support of his arguments, Bhartrhari contends that man came to know  
about the theory of rebirth only through revealed texts which came to  
exist through trans-sensational powers of Seers (risi).According to  
Bhartrhari, reasoning is a source of information which may be proved  
true or false. This depends on the extent to which a person is skilled  
in making reasons. He argues, citing examples of fire and water etc.;  
that the inference about the capacities of anything may vary according  
to condition, place and time. Though DingnAga did not come across  
arguments of DingnAga referred to above, yet he understood and  
discussed these points. He distinguishes between information and  
knowledge. He says that the 'words' can give information about  
something but it is further subject to test through sensation or  
reasoning. Once it is proved to be true, it becomes knowledge. So,  
there is a difference between a source of information and a source of  
knowledge. 'Words' can be a source of information without being the  
source of knowledge. Bhartrhari contends that the inference is  
fallible i.e. all inferences do not yield knowledge. DingnAga agrees  
with Bhartrihari to this claim. But he says that the 'texts' yield  
knowledge only when the statements given in them are valid arguments.  
If the statements fail to support the arguments, then they do not  
yield knowledge. So, the 'texts' are also fallible. Thus according to  
DignAga the words of Buddha is also subject to critical analysis  
before being accepted as valid. This concept he inherited from the  
Buddha itself. The Buddha instructed to his disciples not to accept  
any of his words merely out of reverence.but to examine them  
carefully, just as people examine the purity of gold by burning it in  
fire, cutting it, and testing it on a touchstone; see TSP,p.12.19-20  
Baroda Edition.See also Stcherbatsky, Buddhist LogicI,77, Masaaki  
Hattory-1.1 Please give reference of this verse- शौद्धोदनिप्रभृतयः.  

\> सम्प्रदायप्रवर्तकाः"  
  

thanks  



