+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-11-18, 03:13:43 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/OhCP1Lr2Rtg)]]



Black Sands documentary a documentary about Gonur Tepe archaeological site

  

<http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0LMvFI8gPAU&feature=player_embedded> (Black Sands trailer 3:31)

  

52 min documentary

filmed by Anastasis Agathos

<http://blacksandsfilm.wordpress.com/>

to be released in autumn 2010 production manager/ scientific advisor Marinos Kachrilas editor Aggela Despotidou narrator Ian Watts translations by Inna Sarianidi, Fatos Kahveci music by Efthimis Theodossis and Free piece of tape executive producer Ioanna Phocas producer Tatiana Karapanagioti

produced by URGH PRODUCTIONS 2010 [urghpro...@gmail.com]()

  

About the film

Posted on November 3, 2010 by anastasis321

  

A site on the documentary Black Sands. The film is currently in the final post-production stage: audio dubbing and color correction.

You can find information on the film, the Gonur Tepe archaeological site in Turkmenistan and various details on the shooting.

  

About

Black Sands is a 52 min documentary directed and filmed by Anastasis Agathos.

  

Black Sands simultaneously focuses on the significant archaeological discoveries of Prof. Victor Sarianidi in the Karakum desert of Turkmenistan as well as on the physical surroundings and natural beauty the desert itself, as well as on the people working there and their everyday life in the simplicity and harshness of their surroundings. As such Black Sands documentary is not solely an archaeological documentary but broadens its scope to encompass a fuller expression of the Gonur Tepe expedition.

  

Black Sands documentary wishes to highlight:

  

\- The important archaeological discovery at Gonur Tepe of what according to Professor Sarianidi is an important centre of a hitherto unknown Bronze Age civilization, identified as the early Iranian kingdom of Margiani / Margus .

  

\- The significance of this site for proto-Iranian and proto-Zoroastrian studies. (identifying the ritual and religious institutions that excavations have revealed as in effect the earliest archaeological remains of what later developed into Zoroastrianism. )

  

\- The wider conclusions that can be reached in respect to relations of this Central Asian civilization with the eastern Mediterranean and Indian subcontinent.

  

\- The need to preserve this site as an important archeological find of great cultural significance.

  

\- The eerie and enchanting beauty and sheer energy of the desert and its surroundings as well as the living conditions and traditional setting of the excavation team.

  

Black Sands: filmed in the Karakum desert between the 8th and the 13th of May 2008. <http://blacksandsfilm.wordpress.com/about-2/>

<http://discovermagazine.com/2006/nov/ancient-towns-excavated-turkmenistan> Central Asia's Lost Civilization

The unveiling of a 4,000-year-old civilization calls into question conventional ideas about ancient culture, trade, and religion by Andrew Lawler From the November 2006 issue; published online November 30, 2006

  

<http://blacksandsfilm.wordpress.com/the-trailer/>

  

For comments of Dr. BB Lal on BMAC,

  

> 
> > Unfortunately, however, the ghost of ‘Aryan Invasion’ is not buried > deep enough. It is being resurrected in the form of ‘Aryan > Immigration’, and in this context the Bactria-Margiana region is said > to be the source. Out of the scholars who stand by this rejuvenated > thesis, I shall deal here with four representative ones, namely > Professors Romila Thapar and R. S. Sharma from India and Professors > Asko Parpola and V. I. Sarianidi from the West. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > But before the views of these four scholars are examined it seems > appropriate to spell out in some detail the nature of the > Bactria-Margiana Archaeological Complex (BMAC), even though some of > the scholars present here may be familiar with it. I would also like > to take this opportunity to heartily congratulate Professor Sarianidi > and other archaeologists whose sustained fieldwork has placed the BMAC > on the same high pedestal as occupied by other civilizations of the > ancient world... >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > A careful look at these maps would make it abundantly clear that the > glyptic motifs shown on the first two maps occur from the > Bactria-Margiana region on the east to the Syro-Hittite region on the > west but do not travel southwards in the direction of Baluchistan. It > is only the miniature columns and bowls bearing on their rim > animal-and-snake motifs that find their way into Baluchistan.**But in > no case did any of the above-noted motifs, columns or snake-decorated > bowls find their way east of the Indus up to the upper reaches of the > Ganga-Yamuna doab which, as spelt out in the*Nadi-stuti Sukta*of > the*Rigveda*itself (10.75.5-6), was the region occupied by the > Rigvedic Aryans**.
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Read on... >
> 
> > <http://www.archaeologyonline.net/artifacts/19th-century-paradigms-2.html>

