+++
title = "000 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2014-12-06, 09:29:11 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/b7TSOq1_tZ4)]]



Dec5, 2014



Dear Dr.Amba Kulkarni,



Thanks for explanation of Context free grammar in easy language. In the portion of your reply on Word order in Sanskrit, you used words उत्थित आकांक्षाand उत्थाप्य आकांक्षा . I looked into Apte dictionary. उत्थित means arisen, excitedand उत्थाप्य means causing to awaken. This does not tell me much about it. I will appreciate if you add examples of both. Also the word dislocations have many meanings in English. What is meaning you have in the context of posting? N.R.Joshi.

Thanks to other scholars who contributed to my question. Thanks all.



  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: Amba Kulkarni \<[ambap...@gmail.com]()\>  
To: bvparishat \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Context free grammar  
Date: Tue, 2 Dec 2014 14:08:38 +0530  
  

Dear Sri Joshi,.

You have mentioned two terms: a) Context Free Grammar and b) Free Word Order."  
  

Let me explain each of these. First the Context Free Grammar.

The term Context Free Grammar is used in the Formal Language Theory which studies the syntactic regularities of a grammar.

Noam Chomsky has described the containment hierarchy of these formal grammars. His hierarchy contains 4 levels.

a\) Type 0 or unrestricted grammars

b\) Type 1 or Context Sensitive grammars

c\) Type 2 or Context Free grammars

d\) Type 3 or Regular grammars  
  

From computational complexity point of view, Type 3 is the simplest grammar, and the complexity increases as we go upwards.

These formal grammars are written as rewrite rules.  
  

It had been pointed out by Ingermann that Panini's suutras are similar to the Backus Naur Form used to describe these rewrite rules, and hence he also suggested that the Backus Naur Form may be called as Panini Backus Form.  
  

In the article  
Bhate, S. and Kak, S.: Panini's grammar and Computer Science. Annals of the Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute vol. 72, 1993,  
79--94.



it has been illustrated with an example of a sutra 'ikoyaNaci' how this comes very close to the syntax of context sensitive rules.  
  



Coming to the Free Word Order:  
  

Sanskrit is often quoted to be a Free Word Order Language. However, it has been pointed out that in some cases the word order does matter, else the meaning changes. Fritz Staal suggested a 'Calder mobile' model to describe the 'free word order'-ness.  
  

Brendan Gillon carried out some empirical study with a small corpus of
around1000 sentences to substantiate the claim of Fritz Staal.

He worked in the Constituency Grammar framework, and studied the problems of dislocations.  
  

Later on we looked at the dislocation problem not only in the prose but also in the verses from Geeta, and studied the 'free word order' ness from dependency point of view. Our observations are, the words when are bound with the उत्थित आकांक्षा do not cross their boundaries, but the words connected due to उत्थाप्य आकांक्षा are found to cross the boundaries.



-- Amba Kulkarni  
  
आ नो भद्रा: क्रतवो यन्तु विश्वत: ll  
Let noble thoughts come to us from every side.  
- Rig Veda, I-89-i.  
Assoc Prof. and Head  
Department of Sanskrit Studies  
University of Hyderabad  

Prof. C.R. Rao Road

Hyderabad-500 046  

  
(91) 040 23133802(off)  
  
<http://sanskrit.uohyd.ernet.in/scl>  
<http://sanskrit.uohyd.ernet.in/faculty/amba>  
  
--  
आ नो भद्रा: क्रतवो यन्तु विश्वत: ll  
Let noble thoughts come to us from every side.  
- Rig Veda, I-89-i.  
Assoc Prof. and Head  
Department of Sanskrit Studies  
University of Hyderabad  

Prof. C.R. Rao Road

Hyderabad-500 046  

  
(91) 040 23133802(off)  
  
<http://sanskrit.uohyd.ernet.in/scl>  
<http://sanskrit.uohyd.ernet.in/faculty/amba>

  

On 2 December 2014 at 04:19, N.R.Joshi \<[gira...@juno.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> > Respected Scholars, Namaskar! >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > [https://bharatabharati.wordpress.com/2014/11/27/why-sanskrit-is-a-superior-language-rajeev > -srinivasan/](https://bharatabharati.wordpress.com/2014/11/27/why-sanskrit-is-a-superior-language-rajeev-srinivasan/)  
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > \>\>\>Paninian or Classical Sanskrit (as contrasted with Vedic > Sanskrit) >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > In the above article of Rajeeva Shrinivasan, it is said that the > machine computer does not have context. It needs context free grammar. > Grammar of Panini is such a grammar. Could you please explain this by > giving Sanskrit sentences according to Panini grammar and English > sentences and show to us difference.It is said that Sanskrit is free > of word order (contrasting to English). Forgetting English for a > minute, is Sanskrit free of word order in all situations or there are > some exceptional cases where word order is even in Sanskrit is > important. Thanks. N.R.Joshi >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >   
>   
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
> [**Odd Trick Fights Diabetes**  
> "Unique" Proven Method To Control Blood Sugar In 3 Weeks. Watch > Video.  
> ](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/547cf0b8849470b708d8st02vuc)[DiabetesProtocol.com](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/547cf0b8849470b708d8st02vuc) >
> 
> > --  
> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
> ---  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.  

  
  



--  
निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
---  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**What's your flood risk?**  
Find flood maps, interactive tools, FAQs, and agents in your area.  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/54823c8f1028f3c8d3320st03vuc)[floodsmart.gov](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/54823c8f1028f3c8d3320st03vuc)

