+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2011-08-17, 10:49:17 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/X2257pU87iU)]]



DEADLINE SEPTEMBER 1, 2011, CFP Southeast Asia and World History,  
Cambodia, January 2-4, 2012  
\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*  
From: Hope Leman \<[hle...@samhealth.org]()\>  
Hi, all. I just came across the item below and am sending it along.  
  
Hope Leman, MLIS  
Research Information Technologist  
Center for Health Research and Quality  
Samaritan Health Services  
Corvallis, OR  
---------  
<http://www.thewha.org/future_wha_conferences.php#>  
  
Call for Papers Southeast Asia and World History  
Siem Reap Symposium, January 2-4, 2012  
Cambodia  
  
Southeast Asia and World History  
  
The World History Association, in conjunction with Pannasastra University  
of Cambodia, is issuing a call for papers for a symposium on the world  
historical significance of Southeast Asia. The symposium seeks to generate  
dialog among scholars within and outside of the region regarding its place  
in world history. It also seeks to stimulate discussion of world history  
methodology as well as pedagogy while identifying those world history  
processes that have application to the region's past, present and future.  
  
Among the topics that may be addressed at the symposium are: the nature of  
world history; the processes of indigenization, localization, and  
syncretism; the decline and fall of classical societies; Diaspora and  
gender studies; the colonial experience; nationalism; conflict and  
post-conflict studies; trade; economy; language, religion and culture;  
art; regional questions in global perspective such as borderlands;  
regional diplomatic relations; investment, tourism and resource management  
issues; the environment; comparative genocide; and models for World  
History and global studies in terms of scholarship and instruction. These  
topics are  
examples only and should not be taken to exclude proposals on other  
topics. Scholars from all disciplines are encouraged to submit proposals.  
Select refereed papers from the conference will be published in the  
e-journal World History Connected (University of Illinois Press)and a book  
project is planned to which attendees will be encouraged to submit  
contributions to be considered for publication.  
  
The symposium will be held minutes from the Archeological Conservation  
Area that includes Angkor Wat. Pre/post and concurrent symposium  
activities will be structured so as to permit tours of these and other  
local sites which connect them to the wider region and the world.  
  
Panels will meet in air conditioned rooms on the newly-built PUC Siem Reap  
campus. The time limit for presenting papers will be 20 minutes, and the  
deadline for submitting papers to the session moderator is three weeks in  
advance of the conference. Individual paper proposals must include a  
100-200 word summary with the title of the paper, name, institutional  
affiliation, e-mail address, phone and fax numbers, and brief curriculum  
vitae, all integrated into a single file, preferably in MS-Word.  
Proposals for entire sessions or panels must contain the same information  
for each participant, as well as contact information and a brief C.V. for  
the moderator if you suggest one. (The program committee can help find  
moderators, if necessary.) There is a limited number of AV-equipped rooms  
available so it is essential that you indicate your need for audiovisual  
equipment (and what kind) in your proposal. All meeting rooms are air  
conditioned.  
  
Please send your completed proposal with the following in the subject line  
of the email: WHS, followed by Your LAST NAME (family), and then Your  
First name, then short paper/panel name to the WHA Symposia coordinator,  
Maryanne Rhett, at[mrh...@monmouth.edu]().  
Individuals wishing to moderate a session should send a statement of  
interest, contact information, and a brief C.V. to the program  
coordinator.  
  
Questions regarding program events and content only may be directed to the  
Program Chair, Marc Jason Gilbert at[mgil...@hpu.edu]().  
  
All panelists must register to be on the program.  
  
A rolling acceptance process will be in place to assist panelists to  
solicit travel support from their home institutions and organizations.  
  
The language of the conference is English.  
  
Unfortunately, the conference does not have funds to subsidize scholars'  
travel and lodging at the meeting.  
The deadline for the submission of paper and panel proposals is September  
1st, 2011.  

  

Kalyanaraman

<https://sites.google.com/site/indianoceancommunity1/>[  
](http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.com/)[http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.com](http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.com/)

<http://tinyurl.com/3w6ojj6> (Indus Script Cipher)  

<http://tinyurl.com/4xguuoh> (Rastram: Flipkart in India)

  

