+++
title = "015 rniyengar"

+++
[[rniyengar	2012-07-17, 20:54:23 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/D75XBoV9Kts)]]



Dear Sri Ganesan,  
Your reaction is surprising. There is nothing sudden in my post nor  
did I say that western indologists are to be considered authentic! I  
am a freelance Sanskritist hence I can make mistakes, but I do not  
bring up anything which may not have a historical perspective. Also I  
am not bound by the convention that commentator's meaning has to be  
the final word. In the present case clearly the word 'Kapardii' need  
not jsut refer to Shiva. This can be any one with a hair-knot. Now I  
have not seen 'Shiva' in His original form,( no offence meant) but can  
only write about what is given in the texts that is verifiable. I see  
your arguments are also limited to some texts only. But to say that  
Amarakosha and Skaandapuraana are to be accepted without bothering  
about how the more ancient Vedas have used the same word, lacks  
historical perspective. I appreciate the beautiful word 'ramya-  
kapardinii' as Devi,someone not necessarily dependent on 'Kapardii'  
understood by you as Shiva/Shankara.

Your discussion which has a clear sectarian slant makes me recollect a  
dhyaanashloka of Narasimha, where He is called 'trayks.a' and also  
said to be holding ‘chakra’ and 'pinaaka'. For a lay person if the  
words are taken out of context ‘tryaks.a’ and ‘pinaaka’ may be  
referring to Shiva only. But Narasimha is considered by the mainstream  
Hindus as a form of VishNu!  
Sorry for the digression. Coming back to your original point, if you  
know the origin of the word 'kaparda, kapardikaa,...' or have any  
extra information from Shaivaagama texts please share the same with  
us.

Narayana Iyengar



\> Ganesan- Hide quoted text -  
\>  
\> - Show quoted text -

