+++
title = "003 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2011-12-13, 03:11:19 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/8n6I-GWhXgc)]]



Namasakar Scholars:  

  

Dr Jagannatha has asked a very relevant question that has not yet been address satisfactorily. I was intrigued by his use of term "UTILITY" - I regards this as being equivalent to the "vinoyoga"  

  

"To what extent this kind of modern  utility for *Harih Om*can be justified? "

  

Consideration of following points may help us understand the significance of the term "haraiH Om"  

  

In Banaras there is a place called "hari ki paayari" where dead bodies get cremated, the phrase is explained as the step where the journey for going towards "hari" (VishSnu) begins (Place being at the Sea).  
  
Now, if one looks at the derivation of term Hari as found in harivaMsha  
  
The harivamsha (3.88.44) says - harasi prANino deva tato haririti smR^itiH \| Since he (hari) takes away the lives of people (at the time of pralaya), He is called 'hari'. I do not limit to only pralaya but would like to extrapolate the application to larger concept trhat can be experienced by everyone, who is living.  
  
If one accepts that all knowledge is for the living or making is more comfortable then the explanation of combination of "hariH Om" as a greeting becomes simple to comprehend.  
  
Dr. Korada has already provides many relevant references of use for "Om", which is the beginning of everything (knowledge, literature, yaj\~na ..... etc essentially from A....to... Z). All this can is only possible while one is living. So if that individual remains aware of something that can suddenly end that existence with or without warning is most likely to survive.  
  
This has a direct application in our everyday lives as well.  
  
If an employee is constantly aware of what can and will get him fired from the job then he can avoid such situations. (Example - Dealing directly and providing confidential projects with the complicator, selling distribution list of potential buyer's ....... etc). In personal cheating on spouse, Carrying out espionage against the country. I am sure readers can create many such practical applications on this line of thinking.). Thus the important message is to have the awareness of the real reasoning on which existence itself depends. Any violation is certain to result in death of that relationship (employer - Employee, Husband - Wife, Friendship ...... etc).  
  
It is also said that Om is referenced as "tasya vaacakaH praNava" (Pa. Yoga Su 1.27), where praNava is the designator that helps one understand the meaning sa the next suutra goes to further elabotrate on the importance of understanding of the meaning of mantra. "tajjapastadarthabhaavanam" (Pa. Yoga Su 1.28)  
  
It is also important to keep in mind that "hariH Om tat sat iti nirdesho" or "hariH Om tat sat brhmaarpaNamastu"  
  
Thus, the combination of term "haraiH Om" makes perfect sense as it helps one identify, the one who can take the life out of you. You can live only if you can avoid death (may that be the actual death or any activity that one may be involved in.)  
  
Hope this makes some sense from the point of application or utility (vinoyoga) of term which is used as a greeting when one encounters any living being?  
  
With best regards,  
  
Dr. Yadu  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

