+++
title = "013 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2011-12-15, 20:15:08 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/8n6I-GWhXgc)]]



Namaste Dr Srivatsa,

  

Thanks for quoting Padma purraNa and I am familiar with the quotation.

  

Can you please elaborate and share your views whether any knowledge documented in (shruti, smR^iti, puraaNa ....) was just for us to feel good that our ancestors were great or could there be any use for those statements?

  

I recall Kabiira

  

pothii paDha paDha kara jaaga me, pa.nDita bhayo na koya .  
dha{}ii aakhara prema ke\\, jo paDhe so pa.nDita hoye ..  
  
Meaning (Liberal) - Reading books everyone died, none became any wise. One who understands the word of Love, only becomes wise.

  

ChaaNaakya niiti underscores this point.

  

pustakasthaa tu yaa vidyaa parahastagataM dhanaM \|  
kAryakaale samutpanne na saa vidyaa na taddhanam \|\| 16-20  

  

IMO - All knowledge is for living and it is useless if it is not understood or it is not accessible for use at the time of need. All pauraaNika can be looked upon as illustration depicted by our ancestors for us to get clearer picture of their understanding, which they thought that may be use for future generations. Just like we tell or advise our children few things that worked for us that may keep them out of trouble and/or make their life better regardless whether they take listen to it or not..  

  

Now, getting back to "hariH Om", if you objection is to my efforts for finding out the potential "viniyoga" then I would like to draw your ATTENTION to a quote from kabiira where he uses the analogy of "soap" for cleaning.

  

saabuna bicaaraa kyaa kare\\, gaa.NThe raahe moya . jala so.n arasaa passa nahi, kyo.n kara uujala hoya \|\|  

  

Meaning (liberal) - What can the soap do if one keeps the soap tied down away from the cloth that needs cleaning. Essentially there is no hope for that dirty cloth to get cleaned.  

  

Above is the "Utility of Soap" which was the real "spirituality" behind the creation of Soap in the first place.  

  

Finally, if one uses the term hariH Om to become and remain aware of potential dangers that will harm while living could be an asset while living.  

  

hariH Om tat sat

  

Dr Yadu

  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**From:** Shrivathsa B \<[shrivath...@gmail.com]()\>  
**To:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
**Sent:** Wednesday, December 14, 2011 11:03 PM  
**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Harih Om - Some thoughts  
  





