+++
title = "013 Damodara Dasa"

+++
[[Damodara Dasa	2020-03-24, 08:41:24 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/OB-Xo0x3KEE)]]



Hare Krishna.  
  
Venkata Raghavan ji is rightly trying to point out a very grave point  
(though humorously) about the gross misdirection of the modern  
materialistic society, which is going at a very high pace towards  
destruction. People in general feel that everything is great and try  
to almost always sentimentally reject the reality which is not so nice  
(to be polite in words). Is future due to global warming nice? Is food  
crisis nice (which will certainly result to India because farmers are  
leaving farming at an alarming rate -- 80% of next generation is not  
going to farm)? Is no-marriage and free sex society nice (which we  
will certainly evolve into trying to emulate the west -- remember, we  
cannot just take nice things and leave the bad ones)? And there are  
many more points...  
  
Corona Virus has pushed the whole modern civilization on back-foot and  
sit quietly and re-think over their whole direction (at least there is  
a chance that leaders and thinkers would think).  
  
Below is a link to a talk that my Guru Maharaja, His Holiness Bhakti  
Vikasa Swami gave on Novel Corona Virus' Bright side (although he is  
not a supporter of massacre due to this virus).  
  
The Bright Side of Coronavirus and Civilizational Collapse  
<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AZGY19PApHs>  
  
Regarding many people dying due to this virus, first of all not many  
people are dying; it is only 3-4% of those who are confirmed cases. In  
USA this year due to flu only about 13000 have died and 2 million have  
been affected.  
  
Second of all, at least as Indians, we have the philosophy (which is  
reality based) that we do not die with the death of body. So death may  
be a shock for those who believe that we are body and that after death  
we are finished; the soul doesn't exist and thus there is no question  
of next birth. The idea of continuity of life (or consciousness) is  
ingrained into our philosophy. In Bhagavad-gita Lord Krishna starts  
his official instruction by proving this point and He says that  
"dhiras-tatra na muhyati."  
  
So because there is re-birth there is law of karma also and thus "as  
you sow, so shall you reap." Founder-Acharya of ISKCON, His Divine  
Grace A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada gives the basic reasons for  
such epidemics, wars, etc. Here is what he says:  
  
------ Quote --------  
The injunction is, “Thou shall not kill,” but he will kill and kill  
and kill and kill, and still, he wants to be satisfied. Just see. The  
Bible says, “Thou shall not kill,” and they are simply engaged in  
killing business, and still they want to be happy. Just see the fun.  
Therefore Krsna says, “Yes, you be killed by occasional world war. You  
must be killed. You have created this situation. You must be killed.  
You may be American or Englishman or German or this or that. You may  
be very proud of your nationality. But you must be killed.” This is  
the position. Isvarasya vicestitam. “You have killed so many animals.  
Now wholesale killing, one bomb, one atom bomb. Be killed.”  
  
These rascals, they do not know how things are going on. Isvarasya  
vicestitam. “Tit for tat.” There must be. If in ordinary laws, in the  
state laws, that if you have killed somebody you must be hanged, so do  
you think you can simply bluff the supreme authority, Krsna, that you  
are going, killing, killing, killing, and you will be saved? No. You  
will be killed in pestilence, in famine. Even within your mother’s  
womb, you will be killed. Where it is supposed to be good protection,  
there also you will be killed. The human nation being degenerated in  
such a way, the killing business is increasing daily, daily, daily,  
daily. Isvarasya vicestitam.  
  
So we therefore must submit to Krsna. Sarva-dharman parityajya… \[Bg 18.66\].  
  
From Srila Prabhupada’s lecture on Srimad-Bhagavatam 1.15.24 –  
December 3, 1973, Los Angeles  
  
-----Un-quote --------  
  
So I echo the opinion of Venkat ji; it is time to sit and re-think our  
whole direction. Scholars of this forum are all very advanced and have  
good reputation. Our governments do take guidance from such scholars  
and their knowledge becomes the basis of new policies. When Indian  
Constitution was formed after independence, a lot of help was taken  
from scholars. Now, I feel, again is the need for such an attempt;  
this time for going back to our lands and village life; a society  
similar to that Gandhiji envisioned "Gram Svarajya." Simple living,  
high thinking.  
  
If many scholars bring this point to the notice of our esteemed  
government, I have hope that they will listen at this moment. This may  
create a real green revolution.  
  
Thankyou,  
Hari Guru Vaisnava das,  
damodara das  

