+++
title = "012 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2016-03-13, 04:51:39 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/-INm2Pp1jg8)]]



March 12, 2016



Thank you Dr.V.N.Jha and Dr. Hari Bhat on Bheda of V and B. N.R.Joshi

  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: V N Jha \<[vnjh...@gmail.com]()\>  
To: bvparishat \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Re: sh aring a bit of life abroad  
Date: Sat, 12 Mar 2016 10:54:25 +0530  
  

These variations are called regional variations with predictable distribution. In order to justify such variations rules of identity were created. We find such tendencies in the eastern part of our country. In my childhood I was taught such identity rules in the Chatuspathis(=traditional pathashalas) in Bengal.



VNJha

On 12 March 2016 at 08:04, Hnbhat B.R. \<[hnbh...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> >   
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > On Sat, Mar 12, 2016 at 3:42 AM, N.R.Joshi \<[gira...@juno.com]()\> > wrote:  
> > > 
> > > > March 11, 2016 > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Dear Shree Venkata Sriram, > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Sanskrit grammarians say No bheda between ब" and "व" and > > similarly between L and R. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > PLease explain. Thanks. N.R.Joshi
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > >   
> >   
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > It is not universal. They are used in certain words and there is no > such rule in grammar, but lexicographers like Purushottama, collect > such words that have two alternative usage of letters such as श, ष, स, > व, ब, ल, ळ, due to Prakrit influence in spoken language and not in > Vedic Language. In classical literature, such used words are listed in > द्विरूपकोश lexicons. >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > There is no such grammar rule. >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> --  

> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.  

  
  



--  

Prof. V N Jha,  
Former Director, Centre of Advanced Study in Sanskrit, University of Pune, Pune-411007, India.  
  
Residence  
C-3, 402 Kunal Icon, Pimple Saudagar, Pune-411027  
  
Phone; 91-20-27201458(R)  
Mobile : 09890215441



--  

You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.



