+++
title = "009 VKG"

+++
[[VKG	2011-01-22, 06:58:29 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/4I0IFiOEIlU)]]



Dear Madhav!  
  
Who can decide the correctness?  
  
The Letter R. is not found in English. We can draw a somewhat  
parallel, but not perfect replica in English from our Language, unless  
we use diacritical marks, which are not common for many people.  
  
It is common practice to spell Krishna for the letter R.  
Similarly - Sanskrita.  
  
For the letter Ta., some write tha; Some write ta. Where as some  
scholars of Hindi mother tongue prefer to use consonant as Samskrit  
(Instead of Samskrita). In fact, it is Kta Pratyaya; Hence Samskrita  
seems to be a logical conclusion.  
  
The status of Upasarga is another aspect. In the pronunciation, they  
use San (instead of Sam). This also has an origin in Panineeya Siksha.  
  
अलाबुवीणा निर्घोषो दन्तमूल्यः स्वराननु।  
अनुस्वारस्तु कर्तव्यो नित्यं ह्रोश्शषसेषु च।। (Even here, there are  
two versions - Danta Moolya/ Dantya Moola)  
  
One version the practice of Northern Indian Scholars and the second  
version, suits the Southern Scholars.  
  
As you spell the word, according to the pronunciation, these  
differences creep up.  
  
Sinha, Sanskaar are sample words in Northern India. These are spelt  
Simha, Samskaara.  
  
Keeping this facts in mind, the exact transliteration into English is  
dependent on the interpretation.  
  
Ekam Sad Vipraa Bahudhaa Vadanti - is my inference.  
More thoughts, welcome.  
  
Regards  
Vamshi Krishna Ghanapathi  



