+++
title = "006 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2017-07-24, 13:14:20 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/h8eOFBwyCBI)]]



Dear Prof Patturi

  

Thanks for the link to the paper, I read it, however, it really does not help clarify and differentiate the meaning of "ऋत vs सत्य - meaning
TRUTH"

  

Why the two different terms were used ?

  

May be I am missing something fundamental  

  

Rgds

  

Dr Yadu  

  
  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**From:** Nagaraj Paturi \<[nagara...@gmail.com]()\>  
**To:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
**Sent:** Sunday, July 23, 2017 8:47 PM

  
**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Meanings of ऋत (from Is samaNasutta the native thinking before the "daiva" logic expanded ....)  

[Here](https://www.academia.edu/6477197/%E0%A4%B5%E0%A5%87%E0%A4%A6_%E0%A4%AE%E0%A5%87%E0%A4%82_%E0%A4%B5%E0%A5%88%E0%A4%9C_%E0%A4%9E%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%A8%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%95_%E0%A4%AE%E0%A5%82%E0%A4%B2_%E0%A4%A4%E0%A4%A4_%E0%A4%A4_%E0%A4%B5-%E0%A4%8B%E0%A4%A4_%E0%A4%94%E0%A4%B0_%E0%A4%B8%E0%A4%A4_%E0%A4%AF)you have a Hindi article on Academia.edu  

  

In[this](https://books.google.co.in/books?id=cAdGmEJSDGUC&pg=PA30&lpg=PA30&dq=%E0%A4%8B%E0%A4%A4&source=bl&ots=EgXW8TVNf0&sig=B8TNLcysdjJbsPkMrRkX89Yc8HY&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwjSruWHgKHVAhVGJZQKHdGhDVc4ChDoAQgoMAE#v=onepage&q=%E0%A4%8B%E0%A4%A4&f=false)book, pages 30-31

On Mon, Jul 24, 2017 at 7:46 AM, Nagaraj Paturi \<[nagara...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> > Achyut Karve  
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Thu, Jul 20, 2017 at 4:37 PM  
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Dictionary meaning of ऋत अनृत is truth and falsehood. >
> 
> > 
> > Are these meanings correct. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Nagaraj Paturi  
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Thu, Jul 20, 2017 at 5:21 PM  
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > ऋत has several meanings. One of them is truth.
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > अनृत means lie, falsehood etc.
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > ऋत in its origin refers to one of the pivotal, highest, vital, central > ideas of Vedic thought.  
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > The meaning truth forऋत is secondary and is a derivative of the above > mentioned deeper meaning in the Vedic texts.
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Achyut Karve  
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Thu, Jul 20, 2017 at 5:30 PM  
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Dear Paturiji,  
> Thank you for the reply.  
>   
> Is this the reason that the Vedas have the force of reality and have > stood the test of time. >
> 
> > 
> > Obviously then अनृत would mean that which does not have the force of > reality and hence could not not stand the test of time and hence > withered away. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > 'Dr. Yadu Moharir'  
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Mon, Jul 24, 2017 at 12:42 AM  
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Namaste scholars >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Can some one please elaborate on different meanings of the TERM "ऋत " >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> --  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+unsubscribe@ googlegroups.com]().  
> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> For more options, visit [https://groups.google.com/d/ > optout](https://groups.google.com/d/optout).  

  

--  

Nagaraj Paturi



Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA.

  

  

BoS, MIT School of Vedic Sciences, Pune, Maharashtra

  

BoS, Chinmaya Vishwavidyapeeth, Veliyanad, Kerala

  

Former Senior Professor of Cultural Studies  



FLAME School of Communication and FLAME School ofLiberal Education,



(Pune, Maharashtra,INDIA)







--  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  

To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().



