+++
title = "041 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2017-08-03, 01:57:07 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/h8eOFBwyCBI)]]



Nmaste BVK & Subbu

  

Here are my additional thoughts that may help us understand why TWO Truths were to be recited / proclaimed by the practitioners as a covenant:

  

we say "R^itaM vacmi satyaM vacami."  

  

Here R^ita also means truth and satya also means truth. Why "TWO Truths" are said has very important application, we all know that there cannot be more than one truth.  

  

R^ita - Observed Truth and satya - absolute truth.  

  

So, one observes and then confirms it as a validated truth.  

  

I tend to look at this as Weight and Mass  

  

If one weighs 100 Kg the Earth I would weigh only 16.53 Kg on the Moon; in both cases observed truth is true and are directly dependent on the gravity in two different places. Mass has not changed but observed is different.  

  

Therefore, one can conclude that both observations are correct but one of that is conditional or dependent on the environment. That is why Apte talks Dawn and relates it R^ita because Dawn always changes every day but is perceived by the observer on the Earth.  

  

R^i as I understand is "gati vaacaka" changing, Example: "R^itam bR^ihat"  

  

This it is up to the saadhaka to determine which is relative and what is absolute.

  

Thus in my opinion and both of theses terms signify TRUTH

  

R^ita is WEIGHT

satya is MASS

  

Rgds

  

Dr Yadu  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**From:** Venkatakrishna Sastry \<[sastr...@gmail.com]()\>  
**To:** "[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()" \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
**Sent:** Wednesday, August 2, 2017 11:51 AM

  
**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Meanings of ऋत (from Is samaNasutta the native thinking before the "daiva" logic expanded ....)  



To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().



