+++
title = "013 Achyut Karve"

+++
[[Achyut Karve	2020-10-05, 00:13:52 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/1bXpfmiS5U0)]]



Dear Misraji,

  

Here is an excerpt from my book 'Unveiling the Atlantis of Sanskrit Phonology'.

  

'The human brain does not record words or sounds like a tape recorder. The stimuli that the brain sends out sequentially, to each of the muscle bundles that are used while voicing words, helps in memorizing words or word sequences. The beauty lies in the fact, that the stimuli generated by vibration of the eardrum, resonates with the muscular stimulus needed to phonate those sounds. Thus, the acoustic, the auditory and the articulatory parts of speech merge into one, in one to one correspondence, and thus it is recorded as memory in the brain, helping man to transfer speech sounds from one generation to another'  

  

As we can so does the brain. Do we not see one thing in terms of another which is generally called a simile. The two kinds of waves indicate that there occurs transmutation of acoustic signals into muscular signals in the Broca's area. To understand this one does not need technology or so called modernscience. The problem lies in the fact that one has not made oneself aware of the effort one has to put to phonate each letter in a word.

  

  

With regards,

Achyut Karve.

  

  

  

  





> To view this discussion on the web visit > [https://groups.google.com/d/msgid/bvparishat/27D4FF35-0012-453B-A89D-1104BBD77B7D%40gmail.com](https://groups.google.com/d/msgid/bvparishat/27D4FF35-0012-453B-A89D-1104BBD77B7D%40gmail.com?utm_medium=email&utm_source=footer).  

