+++
title = "001 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-08-26, 10:36:21 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/38tvFhQh-3k)]]



Namaste



1. Word split brining out the components and upasargas: Vyasta ( -- vi + asta) ; Samasta ( sam – asta) ; Vikalpa ( vi + kalpa)



2. Explaining ‘ asta’ with the root ‘ as’ and related Affix Krutdanta ; Explaining ‘kalpa’ as root ‘ klup’ ( ?) and Krudanta affix.



3. Overall meaning : Vyasta - Samasta :: Studying the given entity in its component, elemental levels ***and*** assembled, gestalt holistic unified integrated integral level.

 **That is a directive for Total study** **on drawing board. (= Jijnyaasaa)**



4. Vikalpa – means alternative propositions, options, constructs and choices. This is ‘What if’s’ and Why so’ , What needs to be done to achieve an end result…… analytics as ‘ Conceptualization, Modeling, Rule application and operation, limitation…. **That is a directive for
Total Measure- Model –Systems – Utility Application-Analytics in the laboratory**. ( **= Meemaamsaa**).



 This is what Dr. Yadu has highlighted many times. This is also called ‘ VINIYOGA- VIDHI’. This is NOT LIMITED TO ‘DO’s and DON’T’s, Like This and Not-Like this in ritual. It applies to every field.



 The entirety of Bharateeya Samskruthi is based on this ‘Vyasata-Samasta – Vikalpas’ as ‘ Yoga- Anushaasana – Viniyoga’.

 This ‘Samskruth term’ is badly translated as ‘ restrictive Controls in culture and communities, killing the freedom of individual’ ! and murdered the ‘ Yoga essence’.



5. When so many alternatives and options emerge, **the way to personalize and customize the choices needs a directive for filtering, prioritizing. This is Yoga- Anushaasana**.





6. All the above are expressed in one Samskruth term : Vyasta –Samasta- Vikalpa’.



Regards

BVK Sastry



--  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

