+++
title = "003 R. N. iyengar"

+++
[[R. N. iyengar	2021-01-03, 16:33:40 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/6WX3M46UWMA)]]



Dear scholars,

  

Mr.Gupta write:\>Mr. Iyengar created a needless confusion about aadhaar shruti.There was no drone in ancient music. It is a medieval phenomenon. How can you \>have a drone when \>the tonic is shifted with every different melody? No instrument can provide drone from sa to ni.

I am not interested in joining issues about who knows better the ancient history of science of IKS. If there is some confusion one can always seek clarifications. It is expected an academic reader criticizes others work by arguments and not judge an author by passing opinions.As a professional researcher I am open for new ideas and have no hesitation to revise my papers. That is what I had indicated in my post. The revision that I have done incorporating a section tracing cultural/intellectual links between Sāmagāna and later classical music is as follows: ( I have attached 3 pages from U.Bhises's book for further clarity on the*ādhāraśruti*or the basic note relative to which the aesthetics of the *sāmagāna*was appreciated in ancient times.)

Thanks

RNI

------

**Vedic Roots**

Although the focus of this article has been on musicology, it may be emphasized that the roots of Indian classical music go back to the Vedas. In this connection, a few points of historical interest may be mentioned here. The similarity between the stringed instrument and the human body in the production of musical notes is described in the *Aitareya Āraṇyaka* of the Ṛgvedic branch of the Vedas[\[1\]](#m_8250214664108441373__ftn1). As per the commentary of Sāyaṇācārya[\[2\]](#m_8250214664108441373__ftn2) this hymn is meant for meditation pondering on the similarity between the natural (divine) human body and the man made wooden Vīṇā. Both have an important organ known as Head. The central frame (*ambhaṇam*) of the Vīṇā is like the stomach. The plectrum of the instrument corresponds to the tongue producing musical notes. As the human body has a skin cover, the Vīṇā is covered by animal hide. Like this one to one correspondence is established between the human body and the string instrument. An interesting inference we can draw is that during the days of the Āraṇyaka the Vīṇā was not covered by animal skin, but it used to be so in more ancient times. A similar analogy is given in the *Śāṅkhāyana Āraṇyaka* (VIII.9) also. Reference to an instrument with strings up to a hundred occurs in some places in the Vedas. One can safely infer that the fretless Vīṇā, played with the help of a short stick or plectrum was an integral part of sacred music which in turn was essential to Vedic sacrifices. A brief write up on this topic has been presented previously by Usha Bhise in her introduction to the critical edition of *Nāradīya Śikṣā* [\[3\]](#m_8250214664108441373__ftn3).



The mystic ideal behind *sāmagāna* is an inspiration to synchronize the song and the singer with nature. The *Talavakāra* (Jaiminīya) *Upaniṣad Brāhmaṇa* has an interesting observation on the singing of *gāyatra-sāman* by Śailanas[\[4\]](#m_8250214664108441373__ftn4). It is said they sang the hymn straight as though it was thrown away and thus it was not productive of long life. The *Brāhmaṇa* text, in brief, further enjoins that it should be sung like the blowing of wind from left, right, front and back. If water flows straight it will be exhausted, fearing this, the (river) flow meanders and in some places circles on itself with eddies[\[5\]](#m_8250214664108441373__ftn5)^(,[\[6\]](#m_8250214664108441373__ftn6)). This remarkable analogy of the waviness of wind and water flow for illustrating *sāmagāna* is a telling example of the ideal of Vedic culture to be in harmony with nature through music.It is generally pointed out that from *sāmagāna* the later *ṣaḍjagrāma* of Bharata evolved and that the Sāmaveda chanting with seven *svara*s is closer to the present day Kharaharapriyā scale[\[7\]](#m_8250214664108441373__ftn7). How and why the concept of melody arose in Indian culture to nurture Vedic music to such an extent that Kṛṣṇa in the Bhagavadgītā identifies Himself with Sāmaveda needs deeper study of the Vedas and is beyond the scope of the present investigation. Briefly we note that the ancient tradition already improvised singing of a given hymn in different tunes within the same scale. For example the first hymn of the Sāmaveda has three traditional patterns, of which two are named after Gotama, and one after Kaśyapa[\[8\]](#m_8250214664108441373__ftn8). For sake of comparison, in Table 2 the relative frequencies of *svara*s of the three tunes, as learnt currently by traditional practitioners of Sāmaveda are presented[\[9\]](#m_8250214664108441373__ftn9). It is seen that the same text is sung for differing time lengths maintaining the same relative positions of the *svara*s. The sample is too small to draw conclusions but one can observe that the relative frequencies vary considerably in the three tunes. The first two songs use the *prathama svara* (classical *Ma*) more often as compared with the third song. While one can speculate about the reasons for this improvisation, it stands out that in *sāmagāna,* pronunciation of the words is not considered to be as important as the music pattern. This feature of ascribing lesser importance to articulated language is discernible in later classical music theory and practice also.



Table 2. *Mātrā* count of *Svara* in the first *sāmagāna*. N = Total *mātrā*

****

[TABLE]



The concept of the *ādhāraśruti* can be traced to the one or more supporting singers (*upagāyaka)* who would be holding continuously the *mandrasvara* (low pitch) *Om-kāra* as support to the *sāmagāna* in Vedic sacrifices. The main singer started the *sāmagāna* at three *śruti* level above this basic note[\[10\]](#m_8250214664108441373__ftn10). Thus, in Vedic music also it is the relative position of the notes that mattered like in later classical music. Similarly there are several other characteristics including *ālāpana,* nucleus of which can be traced to the sacred music of *sāmagāna*.

  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[\[1\]](#m_8250214664108441373__ftnref1) AjÉ ZÉÎsuÉrÉÇ SæuÉÏ uÉÏhÉÉ pÉuÉÌiÉ iÉSlÉÑM×üÌiÉUxÉÉæ qÉÉlÉÑwÉÏ uÉÏhÉÉ pÉuÉÌiÉ, CÌiÉ\| rÉjÉÉÅxrÉÉÈ ÍzÉU LuÉqÉqÉÑwrÉÉÈ ÍzÉUÉå rÉjÉÉÅxrÉÉ ESUqÉåuÉqÉqÉÑwrÉÉ AqpÉhÉÇ rÉjÉÉxrÉæ ÎeÉÀæûuÉqÉqÉÑwrÉæ uÉÉSlÉÇ rÉjÉÉÅxrÉÉxiÉl§ÉrÉ LuÉqÉqÉÑwrÉÉ A…¡ÓûsÉrÉÉå rÉjÉÉÅxrÉÉÈ xuÉUÉ LuÉqÉqÉÑwrÉÉÈ xuÉUÉ rÉjÉÉÅxrÉÉÈ xmÉzÉÉï LuÉqÉqÉÑwrÉÉÈ xmÉzÉÉï rÉjÉÉ ½åuÉårÉÇ zÉoSuÉiÉÏ iÉ©ïuÉirÉåuÉqÉxÉÉæ zÉoSuÉiÉÏ iÉ©ïuÉiÉÏ rÉjÉÉ ½åuÉårÉÇ sÉÉåqÉzÉålÉ cÉqÉïhÉÉÅÌmÉÌWûiÉÉ pÉuÉirÉåuÉqÉxÉÉæ sÉÉåqÉzÉålÉ cÉqÉïhÉÅÌmÉÌWûiÉÉ, CÌiÉ\|\| sÉÉåqÉzÉålÉ Wû xqÉ uÉæ cÉqÉïhÉÉ mÉÑUÉ uÉÏhÉÉ AÌmÉSkÉÌiÉ, CÌiÉ\|\| *Ai. Ara.* (III.2.5)

[\[2\]](#m_8250214664108441373__ftnref2) AxrÉÉ EmÉÉxÉlÉÉrÉÉ A…¡ûiuÉålÉ xuÉiÉÇ§ÉålÉ uÉÉ uÉÏhÉÉkrÉÉlÉÇ ÌuÉkÉ¨Éå \|\| (Introduction to the above hymn in the *Sāyaṇabhāṣya*)

[\[3\]](#m_8250214664108441373__ftnref3) *Nāradīya Śikṣā, (Critically edited with translation and notes)* U.R.Bhise, BORI, Poona, 1986.

[\[4\]](#m_8250214664108441373__ftnref4) *Śailanāḥ* used in plural refers to the school of a teacher by name *Śailanaḥ*. This group name *Śailanāḥ* appears once again in *J.U.B* (II.4.6).

[\[5\]](#m_8250214664108441373__ftnref5) iÉ®æiÉcNæûsÉlÉÉ aÉÉrÉ§ÉÇ aÉÉrÉlirÉÉåuÉÉ3cÉç AÉåuÉÉ3cÉç AÉåuÉÉ3cÉç WÒûqpÉÉ AÉåuÉÉ CÌiÉ\|\| iÉSÒWû iÉimÉUÉXèû CuÉÅlÉÉrÉÑwrÉqÉç CuÉ\| iÉ²ÉrÉÉå¶ÉÉÅmÉÉÇ cÉÉlÉÑuÉiqÉï aÉårÉqÉç \|\| rÉ²å uÉÉrÉÑÈ mÉUÉXèû LuÉ mÉuÉåiÉ ¤ÉÏrÉåiÉ \| xÉ mÉÑUxiÉÉ²ÉÌiÉ xÉ SÍ¤ÉhÉiÉxxÉ mÉ¶ÉÉixÉ E¨ÉUxxÉ EmÉËU¹ÉixÉ xÉuÉÉï ÌSzÉÉåÅlÉÑxÉÇuÉÉÌiÉ\| iÉSåiÉSÉWÒûËUSÉlÉÏÇ uÉÉ ArÉÍqÉiÉÉåÅuÉÉxÉÏSjÉÉåÅijÉÉ²ÉiÉÏÅÌiÉ\| xÉ rÉSìåwqÉÉhÉÇ eÉlÉqÉÉlÉÉå ÌlÉuÉå¹qÉÉlÉÉå uÉÉÌiÉ ¤ÉrÉÉSåuÉ ÌoÉprÉiÉç\|\| rÉSÒ Wû uÉÉ AÉmÉÈ mÉUÉcÉÏUåuÉ mÉëxÉ×iÉÉxxrÉlSåUlÉç ¤ÉÏrÉåUðxiÉÉÈ \| rÉSƒ¡ûÉÇÍxÉ MÑüuÉÉïhÉÉ ÌlÉuÉå¹qÉÉlÉÉ AÉuÉiÉÉïlÉç xÉ×eÉqÉÉlÉÉ rÉÎliÉ ¤ÉrÉÉSåuÉ ÌoÉprÉiÉÏÈ \| iÉSåiÉ²ÉrÉÉå¶ÉæÅuÉÉÅmÉÉÇ cÉÉlÉÑ uÉiqÉï aÉårÉqÉç \|\| *J. U. B* (I.2. 3-7)

[\[6\]](#m_8250214664108441373__ftnref6) *The Jaiminīya or Talavakāra Upaniṣad Brāhmaṇa,* (Text & Transl.) H.Oertel, JAOS, 16, pp.79-200, 1896. *Devanāgarī Text with Introduction and Indexes* (ed.) Bhagavad Datta, Dayananda College, Lahore, 1921.

[\[7\]](#m_8250214664108441373__ftnref7) P. Sambamoorthy, *History of Indian Music,* Indian Music Publishing House, Madras, 1960.

[\[8\]](#m_8250214664108441373__ftnref8) R.L.Kashyap, *Essentials of Sāmaveda and its Music*, SAKSI, Bangalore, 2006.

[\[9\]](#m_8250214664108441373__ftnref9) Provided by Anand Viswanathan, Research Associate, CAHC, Jain University.

[\[10\]](#m_8250214664108441373__ftnref10) iÉ LiÉålÉÉ¤ÉUåhÉ EmÉaÉÉrÉårÉÑÈ WûÉå CÌiÉ qÉÇSìxuÉUåhÉ xÉliÉiÉÇ xÉWûuÉÉcrÉåwuÉÉUpÉliÉÈ \| iÉxqÉÉiÉç §rÉliÉUåhÉ xiÉÑrÉÑÈ \|\| *Lāṭyāyana śrauta sūtra* (I.11.26, 27)

  
  



