+++
title = "000 rniyengar"

+++
[[rniyengar	2011-04-03, 18:41:07 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/ysMt154P_Ds)]]



Dear Scholars,  
  
Recently, there have been interesting discussions on BVP list about  
Vedic literature, referencing, indexing, publication ethics etc. I  
like to discuss an issue of great importance to Indian culture and  
history, namely the concept of Tithi.  
  
We read in the above book by M&K  
  
“Tithi, as the name of a lunar day, the thirtieth part of a lunar  
month of rather over twenty-seven days, is only found in the later  
Sutras, being completely unknown to the Brahmanas, in which the only  
day is the natural one”.  
  
How correct is the above statement and how true is the age old  
statement  
“bibhetyalpas’rutaadvedo maamayam praharis.yati”  
  
Please read on:  
  
There have been several posts in BVP pointing out the biased/wrong  
interpretations of vedic texts by western indologists. It has been  
pointed out that Europeans most probably tried to superimpose on AIT  
their own self perceived ethnic superiority or vice versa. Among the  
evidences to show that RV was as late as 1200-1500 BCE the existence  
of Dhruva the Pole Star and the knowledge of ‘Tithi’ as a time (day)  
unit is consistently denied by western scholars of yester years. I am  
not sure whether present day Vedists in the west subscribe to this  
misinterpretation. However a grave misunderstanding gets perpetuated  
in India by those who read Vedic texts in English translations and  
propagate such information as of cultural and historical value. I have  
already pointed out how Tai AraNyaka has a full hymn on the  
constellation S’is’umaara in which Dhruva is at the end. Hence all  
the tomes of Keith, Whitney and Winternitz are to be read with great  
caution.  
  
I like to add Eggeling to this list. His translation of S’a. Br is not  
exactly trustworthy. Now about Tithi, well known historians of  
Astronomy like Neugebauer and Pingree hold that this concept should  
have entered India and subsequent Vedic literature very late, roughly  
around 500 BCE. This argument fits in with the AIT assumption of Max  
Mueller etc. The Vedic Index of M & K quoted above and such similar  
statements of indologists are the source for the science & culture  
historians in India and abroad. How did M&K declare unequivocally that  
BraahmaNa texts do not know ‘tithi’? Most likely they could not read  
S’a Br in the original and depended on the available translation by  
Eggeling.  
  
Eggeling writes...  
  
"…Thereupon it said, in such and such a year that flood will come……  
when the flood has risen thou shalt enter into the ship…..And in the  
same year which the fish had  
indicated to ...."  
  
The original text of S'a Br is:  
1.8.1 \[4\]  
S’ashvaddha jhas.a Asa \| sa hi jyeshTham vardhate 'thetithIm samAm  
tadaugha AgantA tanmA nAvamupakalpyopAsAsai\|  
1.8.1.\[5\]  
tamevam bhr¬tvA samudramabhyavajahAra \| sa yatithim tatsamAm  
parididesha tatithim samAm nAvamupakalpyopAsAm cakre\|  
  
I will not go into the detailed legend which is the about the First  
Flood of Manu, \[the Matsyaavataara an event of great importance not  
just to Hindus but to humanity as a whole\]. Here my purpose will be  
served if the words ‘tithi’ and ‘samaa’ are recognized in the text.  
SaayaNa's gloss captures the essence of the text quite clearly.  
"ittithiim ityabhinayah . tena san\`khyeyaam samaam  
dars'itavaan......iyatyah tithayah yasyaam saa itithiiti  
kecitkos'eshu…..samaa samvatsarah, taam \`samaam' samaayaam ityarthah"  
  
We recognize that the statement refers to a “tithi and a year” though  
there is no mention of a ‘specific tithi and a particular year’. Why  
Eggeling did not bother about the word ‘tithi’ in his so called  
translation? May be he just overlooked the archaic language of the  
BrahmaNa and the details in the commentaries without any motives. But  
why should M&K declare that ‘tithi’ is ‘completely unknown to the  
BrahmaNas’? Did they have some hidden agenda or is it just ignorance?  
How the ‘tithi’ was measured during Vedic time is not yet decisively  
known. But the use of the word ‘tithi’ in the sense of a ‘day unit’ or  
date in a year in the S’a Br text is quite evident to me. Or am I  
mistaken? The word ‘atithi’ appears many times in RV in the sense of  
‘guest; one who comes without appointment or a date’. This would  
presuppose the existence of ‘tithi’ as used explicitly in S’a. Br.  
  
I would appreciate it if scholars of BVP comment on the above issue.  
  
Regards  
  
RN Iyengar

