+++
title = "000 Dr. P. Ramanujan"

+++
[[Dr. P. Ramanujan	2015-03-03, 15:34:21 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/jSxxTTS7DpY)]]



Pratishakhyas, shadvimsati sutra, upalekha sutra, upanidana sutra etc. are related to Veda-lakshanas.

Also, buddhists have many treatises as sutras. Sutras are in Pali also.

Tamil grammar also has nannuul sutram and tolkappiyam as sutras

Ramanujan

  
On March 3, 2015 at 2:14 PM Nityanand Misra \<[nmi...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Please refer
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Amaresh Datta (ed). (1987). Encyclopaedia of Indian Literature (Volume > 1): A-Devo. New Delhi: Sahitya Akademi. ISBN 9788126018031. p. 212. >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > The entry under APHORISMS-SUTRA LITERATURE is as follows. >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > APHORISMS-SUTRA LITERATURE (Sanskrit). Aphorisms form an interesting > and important part of Sanskrit literature. An aphorism is defined as a > cryptic, comprehensive and unemotional statement pregnant with > meaning; but it has to be often explained by referring to other > aphorisms and using special rules of interpretation. Panini's > Ashtadhyayi describing the Vedic and classical Sanskrit language fully > in about four thousand aphorisms is a good example of Sutra > literature. The various Shrautasutras, Grihyasutras, Dharmasutras and > Shulbasutras belong to this type of literature. Panini refers to > Bhikshusutras and Natasutras. Chandahsutras of Pingala, Arthashastra > of Kautilya and Kamashastra of Vatsyayana contain sutras: so also > Yaska's Nirukta. The various darshanas or systems of philosophy have > their basic texts on sutras: Jaimini's Mimamsasutras, Badarayana's > Brahmasutras. Kanada's Vaisheshikasutras, Gautama's Nyayasutras. > Patanjali's Yogasutras. etc. The Samkhyasutras are later than the > Samkhyakarika. Vamana's Kavyalamkara on poetics is in the form of > sutra and vritti. The sutra type of literature was very popular for a > long time; later this gave way to metrical karikas. which was found > easier for memorizing: but the sutra literature has its own place. In > the Mimansasutras, the arrangement of the subject is in the forms of > Adhikaranas—each consisting of five sections in a specific order: > vishaya (topic), samshaya (doubt), purvapaksha (prima facie view), > siddhanta (conclusion) and sangati (correlation).
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >   
> On Tuesday, March 3, 2015 at 12:56:54 PM UTC+5:30, amba kulkarni > wrote: >
> > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Dear members,  
> >   
> > > > 
> > > > I am curious to know if there is any other literature other than > > Panini's A.s.taadhyaayii and Pingala's Chandas'saastra which is also > > in the suutra style.  
> >   
> > > > 
> > > > I remember somewhere reading about the period in which suutra style > > work was more prevalent. Is it the period of Panini-Pingala's?  
> >   
> > > > 
> > > > Thanks and regards, > > > > 
> > > > Amba Kulkarni  
> >   
> > > > 
> > 
> > 
> > --  
> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
> ---  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

  


  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
\[ C-DAC is on Social-Media too. Kindly follow us at:  
Facebook: <https://www.facebook.com/CDACINDIA> & Twitter: @cdacindia \]  
  
This e-mail is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may  
contain confidential and privileged information. If you are not the  
intended recipient, please contact the sender by reply e-mail and destroy  
all copies and the original message. Any unauthorized review, use,  
disclosure, dissemination, forwarding, printing or copying of this email  
is strictly prohibited and appropriate legal action will be taken.  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

