+++
title = "000 R. N. iyengar"

+++
[[R. N. iyengar	2016-03-06, 13:17:22 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/9V60s4cq4dE)]]



Friends,

I am writing this as an insider to the cultural traditions of the country born and brought up in an orthodox family of Sanskrit scholars and currently attempting to build a Center devoted to study of Ancient India with Sanskrit texts as thefoundationmaterial.  

  

I have been following like several others the heated debate going on either side of the E-W divide. There seems to be tremendous problems of perception. This is not surprising, since Indian culture; (history; people, tradition, language, scripts.......) is not a garden; it is a forest; beautiful and wondrous; but difficult to negotiate and work with even as an insider. No doubt there are patterned structures and institutions some hoary and others recent providing shelter, semblance of self-esteem and identity to Sanskrit scholars. That is all what one can say about the status of Sanskrit learning in India in today's scenario.There are some efforts to come out of the shackles thrust by the post-colonial socio-politico-economic system on Sanskrit Scholars. Whether this makes the Sanskrit scholarship to come out of its time warped prison or simply bind itself in knots only future will tell.If you see the statistics put up by UGC and other bodies, and if you take it on face value, there should be no cause for worry. Govt. bodies to which large number of Sanskrit scholars look to, like the cātaka birds waiting for the rains, there has been only a few drops. There is no reason to believe, notwithstanding the Second Sanskrit Commission and the recent high level Committee, that this scenario will dramatically change for better in the near future. It is due to this I find the efforts of both Murty Foundation and of Rajiv Malhotra to be worthy of praise. But, as chance would have it, the two are orthogonal to each other! I think this is due to differing perceptions which will not change easily. I do not know the Murthys personally, but I guess, originating from Mysore region as I am, they love Sanskrit and have done diligent SWOT of academic scholarship in present day India. MCL appears to be more for celebrating Indian classics and thereby the concomitant creative intellectual tradition, rather than just Sanskrit as a language. This is where the first difference with Govt. efforts in this direction comes out. Min of HRD and other bodies routinely handle this topic as for just another Indian language and unwittingly make it look more distant and plainly as "OTHER" to those who cannot emotionally vibe with the problem. All non-private Univ in India are legally subject to policy of reservation etc, which however constitutionally logical it may be, has exponentially eroded indigenous scholarship post-independence. The intellectual eco-system in India in general and Sanskrit-ic in particular is highly disturbed and muddied to say the least. We can passively wait for the upward swing of dharma quoting the Purāṇas or just sulk and curse or take a few incremental positive steps.

  

I heard Sri Rajiv Malhotra (RM) at the KSU, Bangalore and was also present during the post-lecture discussions to which RM refers in his BVP post. I admire his missionary zeal, tenacity and *purity of purpose*; indeed a rare combination. I had heard him a few years back at IISc and also purchased his Being Different. This time, my friend and colleague Dr KS Kannan gifted me the Battle! RM is waging the battle with what I feel, an one man army (no offence meant) and he is waging a proxy war on behalf of Sanskrit Scholars (Pandits in the older sense) of this country. At least this is the message I get reading his book. I am not reviewing the book but I wonder whether RM did due diligence before raking up the Purvapaksha model of traditional Shastras. Do the present day Sanskrit scholars uniformly if not unanimously uphold this as the method to be followed by them and their students in their researches and writings? Are the students getting trained in this method of argumentation in the public funded Sanskrit Universities? A few you-tube videos in the presence of religious Acharyas cannot be generalized. I notice in the general area of Sanskrit scholars (traditional and modern) in India; there is an identity crisis.This is true in many other fields also, but to a lesser degree.RM equally well seems to recognize this in his own way. As with the now proverbial ‘Indian brain drain” it is inevitable in the modern world, “Sanskrit the brain of Bharata” may have to find a place for its survival outside the geo-political Bharata. This is of course happening as with the texts and the language *per se*, though not with the heart and soul behind the brain. Taking the analogy further, brain drain from India has not been reversed, what has come back is lot of money (for the good health of the economy) and good will of the NRIs, which is essentially emotional. This is where I found the post of RM of March 4^(th) on BVP too much NRI-ish (again no offence meant):

  

RM: “...... Some other prominent scholars present proudly and loudly asserted their interest and support for purva-paksha projects to deconstruct Western Indology. They organized follow up meetings with me just to discuss the next steps. Afterwards, I received emails with proposals for funding such purva-paksha workshops about Pollock's work.  
  
But once the Murthy family started a massive $$$ media campaign (which will have short-term influence only), these very same persons wrote emails saying that they should resist doing anything critical of Pollock, because Sudha Murthy was going to give them crores of grants... Wow! Money can make some people change their minds so radically.”

  

Since I was present I know about the ‘proud and loud assertion’ which was any way too much to promise for any one. I am not privy to the emails. But the second para above, about Money makes me remark, after all what RM offered that day was also mainly Money!

  

Any way to end on a positive note RM has identified the Stockholm syndrome of Sanskrit Scholarship in India and called a spade a spade. If there was a field like “Indian Indology” may be it could have tackled “western Indology” as RM expects. But Indian Indology is an oxymoron for traditionalists simply because they have to, in the final analysis,
date the Vedas objectively. What is dished out as academic Indology in Indian Universities is just a rehash of European and American Orientalism in RM’s parlance. But there is crying need for innovative analytical approaches developed from within the tradition for stabilizing and preserving the *Sanskriti*. RM has his task cut out and I wish him well. 

  

regards

  

RN Iyengar



