+++
title = "031 Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)	2016-03-13, 00:25:31 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/9V60s4cq4dE)]]



Namaste Sati Shankar,



On your observation referring to the quote of Ananda Coomaraswamy :
\< What right have Sanskritists to confine their labors to the solution of linguistic problems \> and \< Our scholarship is too little humane…"> >



1. The following is an elaboration on this point ! The \< Sanskritists> look at themselves as \< Professional Scholars and \<
Word-Guardians- Word Usage Auditors> of Language of Tradition . The expression that defines the scope of a \<Sanskrit Linguist> is \< Pada-Vakya –Pramana -Shaastrajna>. This is what the traditional term ‘Pada-Shaastra for Vyakarana would mean. 



 Sanskrit Linguist is a \< Word –USAGE and Interpretation SPECIALIST>.



 This scholarship and Scholar, need to be maintained, Supported and Guarded by the community which seeks to enjoy the benefits of \<Sanskrit> and find its cultural roots, identity elements, prayers and philosophy stated in that language .



2. The functionality of \<Sanskrit-Linguist \> is, traditionally perceived as a Professional of FOUR VEDANGAS ( UNIFIED FOUR Disciplines ): Shikshaa, Vyakarana, Chandas, Nirutka And Professional Connoisseur who tastes the essence and elixir of Word used in literature ( Kavya –Sahrudaya).



3. This is NOT the equivalent of a ‘ Professor in language department’ or ‘ Scholar of Religious language’ in a university. This is also NOT the following:

- modern Social Language-usage specialist ( = Loka –Bhashaa pandita)

- a media and entertainment writer of what is ‘ believed to be
present in a source language’ and as ‘ believed – understood by the ‘commoner for faith practice’ ,

 even when it is farther removed from the authentic text of tradition. ( = Lekhak - Pracharak)

- a political commentator on language dynamics ( = Vaarthaa- kathaakaar)

- a public lecture / discourse provider for whipping up popular sentiment (bodhaka )

- a translator ( = Anuvaadaka)

- a ritual specialist who uses the sacred next, but is not and language scholar. ( = purohita)



i.e. \< Samskruth Scholar> is Not on par with a \<Prakruth Language Scholar>; and certainly not a \<Professor of English> ! .



 The skills needed for a \< Veda Bhashaa / Deva Bhashaa =
Visioning and Speaking the Sacred Spiritual Language \> are different from the skills needed for a Social –Regional language \<Samaja Bhashaa / Desha Bhashaa \>.



 In this sense, \<Sanskrit linguists effort> is to connect the \< Language of the Divine and Sacred , The Eternal and Spiritual> to the contemporary society.

It is NOT offering itself to downgraded to the degenerative dismembered ( Apabhramsha –Vikruta – Prakrutha- Mlecchita) frame of local usage.





4. This precisely explains why \<Sanskrit linguist \> is stuck in the explanation of a given word of ‘ Veda’ ( way beyond 6000 BCE) putting together all the rules and tools coming from a set of
grammar rules framed circa 700 (BCE) and a gloss on it circa ( 200 BCE) and a two sets of meaning explainers called ‘NIRUKTA’ ( unfolding of Word meaning through the Vision and process’ – Yaska school –circa 700 BCE) and Kosha works (prior to 300 AD). Whatever Sanskrit tradition is carrying as the Spiritual Cultural pride and buffer as Vedanta is post 600 AD writings based and continuing traditional practices. In this sense, give or take a few centuries, Sanskrit history is not shaken! The norm called \< culturally correct dictionary of Sanskrit \> is not relevant to Samskruth traditions !



5. On the contrary, try to read and interpret original writing of
Shakespeare using 20^(th) century Oxford dictionary and you will see the challenges in understanding ! The Wren and Martin English grammar with which generations of Indians acquaintance and scholarship was groomed is not enough to work with the Chicago style manual format needs in writing a web composition.



Samskrutham is different from many social languages, especially English ! Samskruth might not have grown from its frozen state of Kalidasa –usage; But it has also not suffered the deterioration like many other world languages ! There is no \< century wise Sanskrit scripture translator and period specific Dictionary \>. These categories come under the classification of \< Prakrit and Apabhramsha Language Specialization, useful for society and relevant in a context. These phases of languages do drift periodically and steadily away from Standard of Samskrutham.



6. Indian linguists come in both streams. There is a Nirutka kara, An Amara-Kosha, A Vachaspatyam, A shabda-kalpadruma which carry their own domain and uniqueness without overlaps and confusions. So also there are ‘Desi Nama-maalas, Prakrutha Grammars, Desi language grammars
and Modern language grammars which live in their unique status of ‘ Being Separate’ and ‘Working Different’ modality. . 



7. In such a dynamic scenario, there has always been big thinkers like a Dandi, a Bhartruhari, a Bhoja - who shows the unified picture of What and Why of Languages . They bring the alignment of Spiritual language and Social languages a a part of Yoga stated in Bhagavad-Gita and leading ‘Pada-Shaastra’ to ‘Tat-pada’ –Shaastra. The sacredness and Spirituality of language is restored by cleansing the profane



Dandi says : yadi shabdaahvayam jyotih, aa samsaaranna deepyate, idam krutsnam jagat, bhuvana trayam andham jaayeta : If this ‘ Light of Word (=Shabdaahvayamn Jyotih) ’ did not enlighten the world, nay the three world’s, the cosmos would merge in deep darkness killing vision (Tamas as darkness, absence of light) and incapacitating the faculty of mind ! (Tamas as Guna).



 The effort of a \< Sanskrit linguist> is to guard such sacred language; The Language of Knowledge and unified Vision for refinement and excellence, is called Samskrutham aka Sanskrit.



 Then there is always the question: Why guard such a language ? To find an answer to this question, one must be excited enough to seek the ‘Truth and Purpose of Language beyond the social frame of usage’.

The search for ‘ Atom and sub – atomic particles’ is not necessarily a question that would hold the attention and interest of a person who is captured by the dream of a ‘ Gold-rush’ . And teaching what is an atom and splitting an atom is not a teaching topic for the high school students! Come to Research corridor and then let us introduce these topics.



8. If the society expects \< Sanskrit Linguist> to do the job of a \< Social linguist>, it only shows how one perceives several answer to the questions : Why, What and What for is Sanskrit. Similarly if ‘ Academia’ uses \< social language standards> to work on \< Sanskrit texts, compiled to a different standard> and call it \< Authentic Research>, well, there is a word for such efforts: it is called ‘ Academic freedom’! 



 Nothing wrong ! the social taste keeps moving between the Secular and Spiritual extremes . Yet both need a language standard. Within the parlance of Indian Thought frame, it was/ it is called
Samskrutham. The Charvaka school uses Samskruth as much as a Buddhist, a Jain as well as Sanatani. Samskruth serves the needs of the sharp logic of Takra as well as the tender splendor of literature and devotion. Erotic’s or Economics, Samskruth provides the best tool for dialogue and discourse. Each school uses the language without violating
Samskruth linguistics set by Paninian frame : Samskruth as a language Standard under the over bounds of Vedas = Vedanga Vyakaranam.



9. Now, do we know where the Sanskrit linguist challenger fits in ? in the classification below – the \< Sanskrit linguist> community
they belong to ?



Do we know the underlining thought and position before responding on how they perceive \< Sanskrit \> ? As a Dead language with a RIP Label :’ Classical Language – imported to India by a Tribe called Aryans,
some time in pre-Christian era is resting here! Keep Your Peace for Eternity ’



OR



Subscribe to the ideology that ‘ Sanskrit was a conspiratorial language developed by a class to control masses and perpetuate tyranny’ ?



The choice from amongst these options answers the question \< “What right have Sanskritists to confine their labors to the solution of linguistic problems; is it fear that precludes their wrestling with the ideology of the texts they undertake?” Our scholarship is too little humane…" \>



\< Sanskritists feel that they have duty prioritized over right for enforcement ( = Dharma priority over Adhikara )? To talk for \<
Samskrutham Language Translation and consequent challenges> ? And they strive differently and fearlessly with \< labor to serve the cause of Society> .





Regards

BVK Sastry







**From:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() \[mailto:[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\] **On Behalf Of** Sati Shankar  
**Sent:** Wednesday, 09 March, 2016 2:19 AM  
**To:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Re: Let there be more light & less heat



Thanks for your kind words Dr. Kannan, I do agree Sir,





