+++
title = "000 J.S.R.A. Prasad"

+++
[[J.S.R.A. Prasad	2009-10-31, 10:24:56 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/Kweih3N5sRI)]]



Forwarding for the kind information of those who work in the speech/image  
technologies. Thanks.

  
---------------------------- Original Message ----------------------------  
Subject: WISP-2009 Call for Participation  
From: [wi...@mail.iiit.ac.in]()  
Date: Sat, October 31, 2009 12:35 am  
To: [ye...@iiit.ac.in]()  
Cc: [wi...@iiit.ac.in]()  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

  
Dear Sir

We are happy to inform you that Workshop on Image and Speech (WISP)  
2009 is being organized by International Institute of Information  
Technology (IIIT) Hyderabad on December 19, 2009 at IIIT Hyderabad. The  
objective of this one day workshop is to provide an opportunity for  
students, faculty, scientists and engineers to interact with leading  
researchers in speech, biometrics, phonetics, image and signal processing  
areas. The workshop includes invited talks from experts in these and  
related areas from India and abroad. Researchers in academic, government  
and industrial organizations are encouraged to participate in the  
workshop. For more details visit at URL: <http://wisp.iiit.ac.in>

We look forward for your participation as well as kind cooperation  
in publicizing this event. Please  
circulate and forward the WISP-2009 "call for participation" information  
brochure to acquaintances in  
government, academic and industrial organizations.

Thank you  
Yours Sincerely

Prof. B. Yegnanarayana

WISP-2009 Chair, Speech and Vision Laboratory  
IIIT Gachibowli, Hyderabad - 500 032 Andhra Pradesh, India  
Tel: [+91-40-66531422](tel:+91%2040%206653%201422), Fax: [+91-40-66531413](tel:+91%2040%206653%201413)  
Email: [wi...@iiit.ac.in]()  
URL: <http://wisp.iiit.ac.in>

