+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2011-09-14, 21:22:21 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/7Uag7h2ClIU)]]



<http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.com/2011/09/central-asian-seals-seal-impressions.html>

  

## SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2011

### Central Asian seals, seal impressions and parallels in Indus Script hieroglyphs

Seals/seal impressions from Mesopotamia and the Indus region have been found at Gonur Tepe in Turkmenistan.  
  
About two dozen sealings and ten sealed bullae (some baked) have been discovered at Gonur and Togolok. I.S. Klotchkov suggests that signs on a potsherd of Gonur contain Elamite linear script. (Klotchkov, 1998, Signs on a potsherd from Gonur (on the question of the script used in Margiana), Ancient civilizations from Scythia to Siberia, 5(2): 165-176; cf. Klotchkov, IS, 1999, Glyptics of Margiana, Ancient civilizations from Scythia to Siberia, 6(2): 41-62.  
  
Amulets and seals made of soft stone and pierced lengthwise often have a swastika engraved on one side. (Sarianidi, V. I., Die Kunst des Alten Afghanistan, Leipzig, 1986, Abb. 100; Fig. 1 after Sarianidi, V. I., Bactrian Centre of Ancient Art, Mesopotamia, 12 / 1977, Fig. 59 / 18; Fig. Of inter-locked snakes after Sarianidi, V. I., Seal- Amulets of the Murghab Style, in: Kohl, Ph. L., ed., The Bronze Age Civilization of Central Asia, New York, 1981,Fig. 7.). Svastika is an Indus script hieroglyph.  
  
The wings of the eagle are a dominant motif on some seals which find comparable glyptics related to Ahura Mazda...

[‘Vrahran Fire’ is the most sacred of all fires. It is a combination of 16 fires, most of which belong to those in the metalworking trades.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Verethragna)

  

...B.B. Lal, 2007, *Let not the 19th century paradigms continue to haunt us!* - Inaugural address delivered at the 19th Intl. conf. on South Asian archaeology, held at Univ. of Bologna, Ravenna, italy on July 2-6, 2007. This inaugural address by BB Lal concludes that the Bactria-Margiana Archaeological Complex (BMAC) exemplified by the artifacts found at Gonur Tepe should not lead a researcher to conclude that Aryan migration occurred through BMAC en route to India!

  

Lal's notes from the concluding part of the address: (Begin quote) Have we not in the past explained the occurrence of some items of a given culture-complex in another complex by means of trade / exchange / casual gift or a similar mechanism: for example, the occurrence of Harappan seals, etched carnelian beads, etc. in Mesopotamia, Iran and even Central Asia by trade and not by migration of the Harappan population? Then why invoke the migration of the BMAC people to explain the presence of some seals / seal-impressions, etc. at stray Indian sites?

  

In the context of the debate whether the ¡Rigvedic people were indigenous or invaders / immigrants from outside, the evidence of two sister disciplines, namely human biology and human genetics, must also be brought into the picture.

  

After a thorough examination of the relevant human skeletons, Hemphill and his colleagues (1991) categorically pronounced: “As for the question of biological continuity within the Indus Valley, two discontinuities appear to exist. The first occurs between 6000 and 4500 BC ... and the second occurs at some point after 800 BC.” In other words, there was no entry of a new set of people between 4500 and 800 BCE, much less of Aryan invaders / immigrants !

  

In recent years a great deal of genetic research has been carried out which too throws valuable light on this issue; and I quote here Sanghamitra Sahoo, et al. (2006: 843-48): “The sharing of some Y-chromosomal haplogroups between Indian and Central Asian populations is most parsimoniously explained by a deep, common ancestry between the two regions, with the diffusion of some Indian-specific lineages northward. The Y-chromosomal data consistently suggest a largely South Asian origin for Indian caste communities and therefore argue against any major influx, from regions north and west of India, of people associated either with the development of agriculture or the spread of the Indo-Aryan language family.”

  

Scholars have already abandoned (though after much dithering) the ‘Aryan Invasion’ theory. Is it not high time to rethink and shelve the newly hugged-to-the-chest ‘Bactria-Margiana Immigration’ thesis as well? (End quote)

  

Read on...

<http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.com/2011/09/central-asian-seals-seal-impressions.html>

  

Kalyanaraman

<https://sites.google.com/site/indianoceancommunity1/>

[http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.com](http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.com/)

<http://tinyurl.com/3w6ojj6> (Indus Script Cipher)  

<http://tinyurl.com/4xguuoh> (Rastram: Flipkart in India)

  

