+++
title = "009 Damodara Dasa"

+++
[[Damodara Dasa	2018-08-25, 14:46:58 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/bfMdsDdzkcw)]]



\|\|Hare Krishna\|\|  
  
Thankyou Raghava ji and Niranji for your inputs. My small points for  
consideration:  

  
\>\> So a path is usually a horses for courses choice in sanatana dharma rather than a blanket prescription for all.  
  

Blanket prescription for all is not bad. It is always esatblished by  
sastras itself seeing the eligibility of people in general for  
different yugas. Thus we see in sruti itself, Kali Santarana Upanisad  
that for Kali-yuga the only path left for liberation is  
nama-sankirtana.  
  
Blanket prescription for all is also very logical. If you are sure  
that 95% out of all people who will come for your class are of level  
of Standard 4th, you are not going to prescribe test paper which is  
fit for Standard 12th.  
  
Also eligibility (adhikara) for following different types of karma is  
derived from one's prarabdha and for majority of souls taking birth in  
kali-yuga prarabdha is quite sinful. Thus they do not have the  
eligibility to immediately take up the vedic path that recommends  
upanayana etc. Thus pancaratriki vidhi is recommended.  
  
Thus, say if I am to consider what should I follow (or my child  
follow), I should consider that there are much higher chances that I  
do not have adhikara for taking up path of varnasrama as it was  
followed in vedic times through upanayana, gayatri, agnihotra etc.  
  
One should also keep in mind that nama-sankirtana is not a non-vedic  
path. This process was also there with other nitya-karmas but in  
kali-yuga only this has remained possible (for majority).  
  
Regarding nama-sankritana as nitya-karma for kali-yuga, nitya-karma  
has the result of providing liberation and nothing else. In kali-yuga  
only thing that does it is nama-sankirtana and thus it is nitya-karma.  
  
It is a fact that deterioration is due to kali-yuga and all sastras  
confirm this. It is not just lamentation but sastras also give  
solution for it -- nama-sankirtana. Thus it is not that we should just  
sit silent thinking that kali-yuga has so many defects, but we should  
take up the solution provided by sastra itself. For instance if  
doctors in city say that currently there is epidemic of dangue and  
everyone should take the vaccination otherwise one won't be saved,  
then obviously get vaccinated. Similarly vaccine for kali-epidemic is  
nama-sankirtana according to sastra-doctor, and he has said that other  
vaccine will not work now as you won't be able to take it properly. In  
such a case it won't be proper to argue that we will try to make  
situation better so that the other vaccine work and not take the  
recommended vaccine.  
  
Hope it makes things clear.  
  
Note: My point here is not to force someone to take up devotional  
service, but to point out the reasons (as per sastras itself) for this  
lamentable condition of people not able to take up nitya-karmas etc.  
Similar lamentation was predicted by rsis who assembled at  
Naimisaranya and they discussed this issue and came to conclusion  
which was Srimad Bhagavatam.  

  
Thankyou,  
Hari Guru Vaisnava das,  
damodara das  
  





