+++
title = "000 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2013-04-06, 00:44:23 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/3j8SE7Pn-kw)]]



April 3, 2013



Dear Dr. D. Bhattacharya,



You are right. According to my information and verses presented by Dr. E R. Narayanan, the name Shakas is there in Mahabharat. That creates problem for the claim of Mahabharata being composed around 3000 BC. In connection with problematic verses from Mahabharata, it is always said that they were interpolations. On one hand Mahabharata is supposed to be a kind of holy book because Geeta is part of it. I do not understand why does a person of Indian origin of Hindu religion try to mess up with Mahabharata. I cannot talk about foreigners doing interpolation in Mahabharata because I do not have any concrete evidence. If somebody has such evidence, please present it here so that all us can see it. Thanks. N.R.Joshi

  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: Dipak Bhattacharya \<[dbhattach...@yahoo.com]()\>  
To: "[sampath...@gmail.com]()" \<[sampath...@gmail.com]()\>,
"[drerna...@yahoo.com]()" \<[drerna...@yahoo.com]()\>  
Cc: "[gira...@juno.com]()" \<[gira...@juno.com]()\>,
"[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()" \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Shakas mentioned in Mahabharata  
Date: Wed, 3 Apr 2013 11:34:09 +0800 (SGT)

As it appeared to me from his language Dr.Joshi did not contest the fact that the Shakas are mentioned in the

Mahabharata. His question was when we see the Shakas mentioned in the Mbh how could the Mbh have been written in 3000 BC. For, the Shakas appeared in history much later. He meant to say that in view of such facts it cannot be maintained that the Mahabharata in its current version is so old.

Dr. Joshi may kindly confirm if this interpretation of hios lettter is correct.

Best

DB



  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**How to Sleep Like a Rock**  
Obey this one natural trick to fall asleep and stay asleep all night.  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/515f22eb2f28422ea4224st01vuc)[peaklife.com](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/515f22eb2f28422ea4224st01vuc)

