+++
title = "000 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2014-09-08, 07:06:19 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/F6bOuuGZKag)]]



Sept 9, 2014



Respected Scholars Namaskar!



Many thanks to BVP scholars who shared their knowledge, as well as their faith in scriptures to my question about the number of Vyaasas.



In the book, “Contribution of Vacaspati Mishra to Indian Philosophy” by S. Ranganath, on p.199 (Chapter on Yoga) there appears the author Vyaasa as the author of Vyaasa Bhashya.



In Vyaasa bhaashya, there is reference to Vainaasika,Bauddhas,Shunyavaadi Bauddhas,Vijnan aadins,KshaNika vaadins, Vaisheshikas and so on. It clearly shows that this Vyaasa is not Krishna Dvaipayana Vyaasa.



In order to check my understanding I asked the question.



Prof N. Paturi in his posting confirmed that this Vyaasa is different.



I agree in general with the views of Dr. BVK expressed in his reply to my posting.



There was no word in my posting “Multiple Vyaasas”.



I am not western educated Indologist. My interest in the ancient Indian culture and history arises from my research in VarNavaada. That is why I was reading the book mentioned above in order to find out the views of Vaacaspati Mishra on VarNavaada.



Thank you all. You have added to my knowledge. N.R.Joshi

  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: "N.R.Joshi" \<[gira...@juno.com]()\>  
To: [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
Subject: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} How many Vyaasas are there?  
Date: Sun, 31 Aug 2014 21:40:28 GMT  
  



August 31, 2014



Respected Scholars, Namaskat!



How many VyAsas were there?

(1) According to my understanding Krishna DvaipAyana VyAsa composed the original epic Mahabharata (Jaya).



(2) BAdarAyan VyAsa composed Uttara MimAmsA



(3 )The third VyAsa composed VyAsabhAs’ya on Yoga sUtras. In VyAsaBhAs’ya the Buddhist doctrine and customs have been very severely dealt with by the author. This VyAsa is then certainly different from the first two VyAsas.



(4) Which VyAsa composed BhAgavata PurANa ? Some scholars believe that Bhagavat Purana was composed in 11th century AD. If that is true then he is another Vyaasa.



(5) Who is Veda VyAsa? The same as the first VyAsa?



Please help me to clear my confusion. Thank. N. R. Joshi

  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**The #1 Worst Carb Ever?**  
Click to Learn #1 Carb that Kills Your Blood Sugar (Don't Eat This!)  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/54039675e3d2716750ad2st03vuc)[FixYourBloodSugar.com](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/54039675e3d2716750ad2st03vuc)



--  
निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
---  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**The #1 Worst Carb Ever?**  
Click to Learn #1 Carb that Kills Your Blood Sugar (Don't Eat This!)  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/540cc72f45509472f648fst01vuc)[FixYourBloodSugar.com](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/540cc72f45509472f648fst01vuc)

