+++
title = "001 rniyengar"

+++
[[rniyengar	2011-05-16, 13:52:22 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/r86QvFbXGxQ)]]



Dear Dr.Kannan,  
Thanks for your kind words and for your keen observations on my point  
of view. The way you look at the YS is indeed interesting. I guess  
sutra style literature allows for multiple interpretations or at least  
some type of branching as in a tree. Yoga as a conceptual system is  
organic and continues to flourish and reflect the aspirations of the  
Hindu society and presently even of a larger section of humanity.  
Having said that I like to point out a fundamental text like YS would  
have been the outpouring of a community serious in experimenting the  
connections between external and internal knowledge blocks. My  
language is clumsy as I am struggling to express myself as accurately  
as possible. Put in another way, this issue is about “whether  
knowledge that can be obtained using the five senses can as well be  
acquired by subduing the senses and practicing Samyama”.  
  
Your observation of A--> B is quite acceptable to me. Your discussion  
perhaps leads us to hard core yoga and the philosophy behind this  
formula, whereas my points were too mundane! Since you have  
encouraged me I like to say the following. \[Please note my  
limitations. Firstly I am not a yogi who could demonstrate the  
correctness or otherwise of the YS. Nor am I a scholar like you having  
in depth knowledge of the commentaries\].  
  
What I see is both A and B are in the physical realm, the process of  
connecting the two is psychic or yogic and the knowledge gained is  
possibly objectively verifiable as a fact. Sun is the physical sun the  
knowledge is that of the Bhuvana parts of which at least would have  
been known to the practitioner before the start of the exercise.  
Similarly moon and the star groups; navel and the body-structure are  
physically verifiable at least to some extent. You use the word  
‘realm’ probably highlighting the spatial aspect of B. Even in the  
case of Dhruva and ‘Gati’ it is the ‘realm’ that is involved. It is  
like a ‘vyuha’ but this would be moving. If as you like to interpret  
‘tadgati’ means the movement of the ‘tara-vyuha’ why should ‘dhruva’  
be left out of this? On the other hand if concentration on ‘moon’ was  
sufficient for all the night sky objects, why ‘dhruva’ is specially  
specified for concentration? My argument is YS knew the difference and  
wanted to highlight an important event that was in the realm of ‘B’.  
For later commentators even though dhruva was known to be in the  
S’is’umaara (Draconis) constellation (as per older literature; Tai  
AraNyaka, PuraaNa etc) his ‘gati’ did not seem to be in ‘B’ simply  
because they did not see him moving during their period or they  
thought ‘dhruva’ should be fixed and hence whatever be this ‘A’ it  
should be linked with the ‘B’ of moon. This reasoning is what I mean  
as ‘historical perspective’.  
  
Again, about ‘sun and bhuvana’ I do not know how to interpret  
‘bhuvana’. I do not think it is used in the sense of all encompassing  
universe. PuraaNas talk of several ‘bhuvana’. You very well know our  
Acharaya’s statement “Caturdas’a bhuvanaatmakam aNDam….” . It is  
perhaps not a perception of the ordinary kind, or it could be  
extrapolation of a model of the visible world (Loka) or even about  
real structures in the Chidaakaas’a. I better not speculate further...  
  
best regards  
  
RN Iyengar  



