+++
title = "003 Surendra Mohan Mishra"

+++
[[Surendra Mohan Mishra	2010-02-10, 02:05:16 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/5NO_KAvtrNw)]]



Esteemed Colleagues,  
Abhiruupa-bhuuyishtheyam bhaaratiiya-vidvatparishat.Pranatayah  
samskritakalyaanamitreshu.  
N R Joshi's is in tune with Yaaska's artho nityah parikshyeta.As  
rightly pointed out by Aklujkar linguistic convention in Sanskrit is  
very old and not everything comes down to us.A rough estimate would  
tell us that at least 70% of the written literature is lost for  
ever.But of course there have been grammarians,lexicographers and  
linguists and language-philosophers in Bhaarat and elsewhere who have  
tried there best,not without failings, to put things in ordeer.  
This order has been shaped andand later lexicons allot such a meaning  
to to the word 'nidhana'which basically meant death only.In the  
Dviruupakosha of Purushottama many such new entrants(initially  
miscreants could be noticed ! aarya also is the same as arya - what a  
sacrilege if Panini is visited at 'aryah svaami-vaishyayoh.' !)..  
reshaped to suit linguistic communities or lend credence to master  
literateurs.See the use of 'nidhana' for 'nirdhana'in  
Mricchakatikam.It could just be an omission of 'r' to keep away from a  
hypermetric use.To carry Bhavabhuuti further : yathaa striinaam tathaa  
vaacaam duushtatve saadhutaam budhah,sishaadhayishati praayah samayam  
paripaalayan.  
The expression 'abhidhaa' does have a basic sense as warranted by the  
prefix,root and suffix,but then in the hands of the scholiasts such as  
vaiyaakaranas,old and neo-logicians,miimaamsakas etc against there  
peculiar metaphysical and epistemological presuppositions,this has  
denoted different things at different times and contexts.But certainly  
'dhaa' can not replace 'abhidhaa'.Being true to the linguistic  
convention is a requirement very basic to our notion of language  
use.the old quote is worth remembering : yady api siddham  
lokaviruddham naadaraniiyam naacaraniiyam !

nivedayati

SurendramohanaMishrah  
Kurukshetra University  

