+++
title = "000 Dr. P. Ramanujan"

+++
[[Dr. P. Ramanujan	2014-01-22, 21:24:56 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/zxyqVUtMvno)]]



Annex G of ISCII std. IS13194:1991 is to be considered for complete description

as accents are also to be included for a proper and generic definition.

Note that Panini's prime purpose in Ashtadhyayi is as a Vedanga.

So also Mahabhashya/Kashika examples deal extensively with Vedic usages.



Ramanujan  
On January 22, 2014 at 8:12 PM Amba Kulkarni \<[ambap...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > The ISCII91.pdf document describes the syntax in BNF form as > follows:  
>   
> An Indian script word contains one or more syllables, the syntax for > which is given in the following  
> Backus-Naur Formalism (BNF).  
>   
> Word ::= {Syllable} \[Cons-Syllable\]  
> Syllable ::= Cons-Vowel-Syllable \| Vowel-Syllable  
> Vowel-Syllable ::= V \[D\]  
> Cons-Vowel-Syllable ::= \[Cons-Syllable\] Full-Cons \[M\] \[D\]  
> Cons-Syllabls ::= \[Pure-Cons\] \[Pure-Cons\] Pure-Cons  
> Pure-Cons ::= Full-Cons H  
> Full-Cons ::= C \[N\]  
>   
> Following conventions are used in the syntax given above:  
> ::= defines a relation.  
> {} enclose items which may be repeated one or more times.  
> \[\] enclose items which may not be present.  
> \| separates items, out of which only one can be present.  
> > 
> > The version with regular expression is an improvement over this, since > now more simple description is available. >
> 
> > Sanskrit does not have Nukta, and hence for Sanskrit the regular > expression may be simplified as:  
> V\[m\]\|{CH}C(H\|\[v\]\[m\]) in order to avoid the over-generation > (ati-vyaapti). >
> 
> > 
> > -- Amba Kulkarni >
> 
> > 
> >   
>   
> > 
> > On 22 January 2014 09:47, Mārcis Gasūns \<[gas...@gmail.com]()\> > wrote:  
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Namaste, > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Definition of the Indic Akṣara on p. 70-71 - anything to add to it? > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > It is the first definition that is a good one, academic and full. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > It uses a RegEx style, what is even better and has a practical use. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Indic Akṣara V\[m\]\|{C\[N\]H}C\[N\](H\|\[v\]\[m\]) - structure of > > syllable in Hindi.   
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > M.G. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > --  
> > निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
> > ---  
> > You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> > To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, > > send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> > To post to this group, send email to > > [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> > Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
> > For more options, visit > > <https://groups.google.com/groups/opt_out>.  
> > 
> >   
>   
>   
> --  
> आ नो भद्रा: क्रतवो यन्तु विश्वत: ll  
> Let noble thoughts come to us from every side.  
> - Rig Veda, I-89-i.  
> Assoc Prof. and Head  
> Department of Sanskrit Studies  
> University of Hyderabad  
> > 
> > 
> > Prof. C.R. Rao Road
> > 
> > Hyderabad-500 046  
> > 
> >   
> (91) 040 23133802(off)  
>   
> <http://sanskrit.uohyd.ernet.in/scl>  
> <http://sanskrit.uohyd.ernet.in/faculty/amba> >
> 
> > 
> > --  
> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
> ---  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/groups/opt_out>.

  


  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
This e-mail is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may  
contain confidential and privileged information. If you are not the  
intended recipient, please contact the sender by reply e-mail and destroy  
all copies and the original message. Any unauthorized review, use,  
disclosure, dissemination, forwarding, printing or copying of this email  
is strictly prohibited and appropriate legal action will be taken.  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

