+++
title = "003 R. N. iyengar"

+++
[[R. N. iyengar	2018-03-29, 11:12:17 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/To-bawQx5EA)]]



Dear Sri Sundareswaran,

I have not come across the cited slokardha in the manuscripts of Vrddha-gaargiiya-jyotisha (VGJ) that I am currently studying.I am curious to know the exact citation prior to the slokaardha. Does Somayaaji name Garga, Vrddhagarga, Gargasamhita, Gaargya, Gaargiiya or any other variant?

Thanks to Dr.Wakankar-ji for referring to our (his and mine) past collaboration that ended sometime in 2015 after he left IIT Gandhinagar. I like to offer the following clarifications:

There were talks of official collaboration between IITGn and CAHC-JU on a)Naradashilpam and b)Vrddhagarga-samhita. The first has reached its conclusion with due acknowledgements to IIT Gn. The second did not take off beyond acquiring two mss from RORI and one from Pune through Dr.Wakankar, courtesy Director, IIT Gn.

However, I have collected four more mss of VJG plus several unconnected 'Garga/GArgya-samhitas' for my ongoing investigations. This work is mainly supported by Jain University and partially by ICHR, through a 2-year study project reported by the national press as important news in June 2016:

<http://indianexpress.com/article/india/india-news-india/ichr-nod-to-map-science-in-ancient-india-2851289/>

  

In February 2017 I gave a talk sponsored by ICPR at IISc, (my *alma mater*) on the observations of Parashara and Vrddha-garga

(<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L6MPPip4FwA>) when two youngsters approached me and wanted to work with me on such works in Sanskrit. At present I have two enthusiastic young Sanskritists (Anand and Vinay) helping me in my study of VGJ.

  

Like other texts VGJ is layered having material belonging to different periods. However, based on stars mentioned as visible in some particular seasons, we have dated these observations to 800-100 BC. There will be parts belonging to periods earlier than the above and also dates later than the above broad period is my present inference. I understand (limited secondary sources) Neelakantha-somayaji refers to Vrddha-garga and Garga. The quote ascribed to the first is available in the VGJ text (introductory chapter), but not the one you cite as attributed to Garga. Incidentally some mss ( not all) of VGJ include the YugapurANa (aka SkandapurANa) which has been separately published first by Mankad and later by Mitchener.

  

Thanks

RNI

  

  

  

  

On Wed, Mar 28, 2018 at 6:06 AM, nkswaran \<[nksw...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> > 
> > Sir, Could you please give me the details of reference for this > 'slokardha'. The quotation appears in the Aryabhateeyabhashyam of > Nilakantha Somayaji. Further I would like to have your opinion on the > date of Garga Samhita.
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > With pranams
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > nks >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > Sent from my Samsung Galaxy smartphone. >
> 
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > -------- Original message -------- >
> 
> > 
> > From: Siddharth Wakankar \<[sywak...@gmail.com]()\> >
> 
> > 
> > Date: 3/28/18 5:00 AM (GMT+05:30) >
> 
> > 
> > To: [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() >
> 
> > 
> > Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Quotation from Garga Samhita >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Suprabhat. >
> 
> >   
> > 
> > Sir, >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Myself and Prof.Dr.R.N.Iyengar are working on a Critical Edition of > the Gargasamhita and I have collected and given him some very rare > Manuscripts of GS.You may contact him on this issue,as he is the best > person to enlighten you on such points. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Best luck. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > Prof. Siddharth Y Wakankar. >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > On Wed 28 Mar, 2018, 12:08 AM nkswaran, \<[nksw...@gmail.com]()\> > wrote:  
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > >   
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Dear list
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > >   
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > I am looking for the source of the hemistich पृथग् दोःकोटिवर्गाभ्यां > > कर्णवर्गोनुषज्यते॥ It is the statement of 'so-called' Pythagorean > > theorem. It is said that it is from Garga Samhita
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > I want the exact and detailed reference to a reliable edition. > > Could any one please help me ? > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Thanking you in advance,                      
> > nks                                
> >           Sent from my Samsung Galaxy smartphone. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > > --  
> > You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > > To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, > > send an email to [bvparishat+unsubscribe@googlegroups.com](). >
> 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > >   
> > To post to this group, send email to > > [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> > For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.  
> > 
> > 

> 
> > --  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> > 

> 
> > To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+unsubscribe@googlegroups.com](). >
> 



