+++
title = "000 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2015-03-06, 06:00:32 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/ImifT-EKf2Q)]]



  
March 5, 2015



Dear Prof M. Deshpande, Dr. H.N.Bhat, Prof N. Paturi, Thanksfor meaningful comments on my posting onSanskrit as Daivi Vak. N.R.Joshi

---------------------------------------------

  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: Madhav Deshpande \<[mmd...@umich.edu]()\>  
To: "[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()" \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} All spoken languages (Vaak) deserve appellation Daivee Vak  
Date: Wed, 4 Mar 2015 10:08:29 +0530  
  

Such feelings of primacy for a given language are shared by numerous traditions across the world. I have read publications arguing for the primacy of Hebrew, Arabic, and Tamil among other languages. The Jain tradition claims that the Ardhamagadhi is the language of the Gods, while the Pali tradition claims Pali to be the original language of all beings (sabbasattānaṃ mūlabhāsā). The Sanskrit tradition claimed such a position of primacy for Sanskrit. While reading works belonging to any particular tradition, we need to keep it specific context in mind, and understand the claims of a given tradition within that specific context. The Sanskrit grammarians and philosophers denying a primary meaning-conveying ability (śakti) to Apabhraṃśas, and granting them only the ability to remind the listener of the proper Sanskrit word, which only conveys meaning, are a good example of this insular tendency.
Granting the primary meaning-signifying ability to Apabhraṃśas and regional languages is seen only as an exceptional opinion, and only very late. 



Madhav Deshpande

  
  



--  

Madhav M. Deshpande  
Professor of Sanskrit and Linguistics  
Department of Asian Languages and Cultures  
202 South Thayer Street, Suite 6111  
The University of Michigan  
Ann Arbor, MI 48104-1608, USA



--

  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**How Old Men Tighten Skin**  
63 Year Old Man Shares DIY Skin Tightening Method You Can Do From Home  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/54f8f51f18afe751f1afest03vuc)[healthylivinglifeguide.com](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/54f8f51f18afe751f1afest03vuc)

