+++
title = "009 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2015-03-12, 02:30:28 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/ImifT-EKf2Q)]]



March 11, 2015



Dear BVK Namaste!



I read your posting. According to Dr. Kalyanraman and Puranic Encyclopedia, there were people Mlecchaa living in the land now called the western Pakistan. Thanks NRJoshi

  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: Bvk sastry \<[sastr...@gmail.com]()\>  
To: "[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()" \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} All sp oken languages (Vaak) deserve appellation Daivee Vak  

Date: Sun, 8 Mar 2015 09:22:16 -0400  
  

Namaste



The discussions in this thread have clarified many subtle points , taking reference to Panini- Patanjali tradition as given in Bhartruhari (- as vyakarana/ shabdaBrahma darshana).

This spiritual linguistics approach (adhi-vacham/ daivee vak/ vak yoga) is the anchor of indian shaastra tradition in analyzing the vedic document.

As is clear from the extracts, the patanjali- endorsement is six- perspective unified analytics of veda= Six vedanga systems augmentation to arrive at the meaning of veda. This vedanga tradition and tools is the foundation to build a vedanta thought from vedas.



This approach also shows why and how the historical social degenerative model of linguistics ( apabhramsha- prakrutha- desha bhashaa- videsha bhashaa) fail to explain vedic language analytics, highly praised over last two hundred years all over the world, by positioning vedic Sanskrit as a language in the basket of Indo-European languages.if this position of Vedic language is to be treated as poorva-paksha(- from 19th century time line), it may seem anachonistic that the answers are already present way back in prechristian era writings of Patanjali.



The position of vedanga vyakarana of Panini(- and vakyapadeeya philosophy) deals with a TRUE language that would be capable if TOTAL Expression of Intention in communication in a time- transcendent way. ( विवक्षाया: सत्येन समग्रतया उच्चारणम् = वैखरी )-संप्रत्ययार्थं -

This total process happens only in a refined expression and through a conscious ,user applied , rule anchor compliance in Sanskrit. Not to that full extent in other languages.

The designation- prakrit, apabhramsha, mlecchita is a marker if slippage from total true rule compliance. Each irreversible phase of language- usage degeneration (- like an isotope in chemistry) is given a name.



But the universality of Sphota process continues irrespective of the degenerate state; what lacks is the awareness of details. The clarity of how a thing works is different for a designer and end user. Every driver of car is not a designer of car or manufacturer!



I hope this clarifies some subtle points in the thread pointed by Prof Korada and Paturi, especially on Apabhramsha - which may lead to inaccurate surmises.



Regards

Bvk Sastry  
  
Sent from my iPhone

  
On Mar 7, 2015, at 6:19 AM, Subrahmanyam Korada \<[kora...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  
  









> 
> > 



--  

निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
---  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**TaxSlayer**  
Max your refund with TaxSlayer.  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/5500acbde0be2cbc0317st01vuc)[taxslayer.com](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/5500acbde0be2cbc0317st01vuc)

