+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2011-09-01, 12:15:50 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/hbhZ-fj12sg)]]



Call for authors/reviewers for new online weekly journal on religion and politics  
\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*  
  
Recruiting writers and book reviewers for new online weekly journal on religion and politics  
Website Date: 2011-10-01  
Date Submitted: 2011-08-30  
Announcement ID: 187529  
  
Recruiting emerging and established scholars and journalists of religion to write magazine-length stories on religion and politics as well as book reviews for new, online weekly journal (university center based) set to launch in early Winter, 2012. Authors work with editors on story planning and editing. Authors are compensated per article/review.  
  
Max Perry Mueller  
Associate Editor  
Religion & Politics  
  
Email:[max.m...@wustl.edu]()  
Visit the website at<http://rap.wustl.edu/>

  

Position: Buddhist Traditions of south and/or Southeast Asia, Assistant Professor (tenure-track), Vanderbilt University  
\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*  
  
Vanderbilt University, Department of Religious Studies  
  
Assistant Professor, Buddhist Traditions of South and/or Southeast Asia  
  
  
Institution Type: College / University  
Location: Tennessee, United States  
Position: Assistant Professor  
  
  
The Department of Religious Studies at Vanderbilt University seeks to make an appointment in Buddhist Traditions of South and/or Southeast Asia. Rank is Assistant Professor tenure-track. Area of specialization, historical period, and methodological approach are open. Command of appropriate languages commensurate to an advanced research agenda will be required (e.g., Sanskrit, Pali, Tibetan, Sinhala, Vietnamese, Thai, Burmese, Lao or other vernacular). The successful candidate should expect to teach both introductory and advanced classes in the field; normal course load is two courses per semester (four per year). Qualified candidates should be prepared to mentor graduate students and teach advanced courses in the methodologies appropriate to the study of religion in the Graduate Department of Religions field of Historical and Critical Theories of Religion (HACTOR). PhD must be in-hand by the beginning of Fall 2012 term.  
  
Application deadline is 05 October 2011 with review to begin immediately.  
  
Vanderbilt is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. Women and under-represented minorities are encouraged to apply.  
  
  
Contact: Please send a letter of application, research statement, and assessment of teaching (if available), transcripts, and three letters of recommendation (or standard university graduate student placement dossier) to:  
  
Tony K. Stewart, Chair  
  
Department of Religious Studies  
ATT: Buddhist Traditions Search Committee  
Vanderbilt University  
VU Box #351585 \[301 Garland Hall\]  
2301 Vanderbilt Place  
Nashville, TN 37235-1585 USA  
  
Website:<http://www.vanderbilt.edu/AnS/religious_studies>  
Primary Category: Religious Studies and Theology  
  
Secondary Categories: None  
Posting Date: 08/31/2011  
Closing Date 11/28/2011

  

Call for Papers: History of Medicine in SE Asia Solo (Surakarta) 2-5 July 2012  
\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*  
From: Faye Cook \<[faywa...@gmail.com]()\>  
  
CALL FOR PAPERS  
  
  
4th International Conference on  
The History of Medicine in Southeast Asia  
(HOMSEA 2012)  
  
  
To be held in Solo (Surakarta)  
2-5 July 2012  
  
to coincide with IAHA 2012 (International Association of Historians of  
Asia)C  
  
  
Organised by:  
PERSEKIN  
(Perhimpunan Sejarah Kedokteran Indonesia /  
Indonesian Association of the History of Medicine)  
  
  
  
With support from:  
  
University of Indonesia (Indonesia)  
KITLV Royal Netherlands Institute of Southeast Asian and Caribbean Studies  
(The Netherlands)  
The Canada Research Chair in Health Care Pluralism, Université de Montréal  
(Canada)  
University of Sydney (Australia)  
  
  
Program Committee:  
Professor Warwick Anderson, University of Sydney, Australia  
Professor Peter Boomgaard, KITLV, Leiden, The Netherlands/ University of  
Amsterdam  
Professor Harold Cook, Brown University, Rhode Island, United States  
Professor Rethy Chhem, Institute of History, Philosophy and Ethics of  
Medicine, Ulm University  
Dr. Kartono Mohamad, President PERSEKIN and former president IDI: Indonesian  
Medical Association  
Assoc. Prof. Laurence Monnais, University of Montreal, Canada  
Dr. Hans Pols, University of Sydney, Australia  
and other members of the LOC (Local Organizing Committee): Dr. Rushdy  
Hoessein, Prof. Firman Lubis, Dr. Doddy P. Partomihardjo  
  
All proposals on the subject of the history of medicine and health in  
Southeast Asia will be considered, but preference will be given to those on  
the theme of:  
\* The history of medical education in Southeast Asia  
\* Indigenous medical traditions  
\* History of military medicine  
\* Medical biographies  
\* Organising the medical profession  
\* Women's health and family planning  
\* Medicine and social development  
\* Travel, contact, exchange, and circulation of medicine in  
    Southeast Asia  
  
As the HOMSEA meeting will coincide with the IAHA 2012 meeting in Surakarta,  
those interested in expanding the discussion either geographically-to  
include North East Asia and South Asia-chronologically, or methodologically  
are encouraged to apply to HOMSEA as well as the IAHA meeting to broaden the  
scope of discussion.  
  
Please see the IAHA website at:<http://iaha22.geosejarah.org/>  
  
  
Please submit a one-page proposed abstract for a 20-minute talk, and a  
one-page CV by 30th December 2011 to: Laurence Monnais:  
[laurence.monn...@umontreal.ca]()  
  
Please note that it may be possible to subsidize some of the costs of  
participation for scholars from less wealthy countries, and for graduate and  
postgraduate students.  
  
For further information about funding and the general organization of the  
meeting, please contact: Hans Pols: \<[hans...@sydney.edu.au]()\>.  
  
Posted by Prof. HJ Cook ([harol...@brown.edu]())  

  

Kalyanaraman

<https://sites.google.com/site/indianoceancommunity1/>[  
](http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.com/)[http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.com](http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.com/)

<http://tinyurl.com/3w6ojj6> (Indus Script Cipher)  

<http://tinyurl.com/4xguuoh> (Rastram: Flipkart in India)

  

