+++
title = "015 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-06-20, 16:48:04 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/LNk0jIPbRMQ)]]



Namaste



On \< My comment was with reference to Sastry ji's characterisation of this statement as a criticism against modern advaita? \>



1. The full wordings I have used in my post read : \< **chastising ‘ modern advaitins’ (= ते ) *of his context and time* ** \> . The reference is to the context of Vijnana bhikshu.



**2. My follow up questions in this ‘ context’ for ‘advaita scholars contemplation’ would be this** :



 How many ‘ modern advatins of today stand by original Prasthana Traya Bhashya’ by Acharya, without taking sides and recourse to the plethora of commentaries, say ratnaprabha ? 



 How many adviata lineage institutions can confidently claim to have ‘ preserved the integrity and purity of Yoga teachings and practices that need to serve as the foundation for adviata deliberation / pursuit ? as deliberated in Gita or Brahma Sutras ?



***( Note***: Please dont hit back by quoting the sutra : Etena yogah pratyuktah \[ II.1.3 \]. Here ‘yoga’ does not mean ‘ yoga-philosophy’ as given in many translations ! If it were to be so, Acahrya’s complete commentary on ‘Gita’ as ‘ yoga-shaastra’ would have to be dumped out; and ‘ prasthana –traya’ frame would be meaningless.
Yoga is not a house floating in the sky; nor the vendatna. Yoga is the anchor foundation of Vedanta; and advaita Vedanta. )





**Why am I asking this question?** : It is a given historical fact
that under the broad umbrella of ‘ Shankara –Advaita’, ( which technically is a perspective built on ‘ Shaaareeraka – Meemaamsaa – darshana’ . Many traditional commentators ( even during Acharyas time and proximate period following Him) have made hair-splitting interpretations which seem to go against the grain of ‘Achaarya Bhaashya’ . The footprints of such interpretations, prior to Vijnana Bhikshu (16^(th) Century) are clearly visible in the emergence of ‘ Ramanuja and Madhva’ schools (10^(th) to 14^(th) centuries). The ‘ head centric intellectualism ( *Paanditya* - *garva*) and heart –anchored ‘Ego’ (*aham-kaara - mada*) have lead to a proliferation of ‘cultural
genocide and suicidal –debates’ in the name of ‘ pleasing and preserving the Acharya Paramparaa’.



Vijnana Bhikshu (16^(th) century) could be making a pointer to anyone in the long span of almost 1000 years that separates him from Acharya Shankara. \[ Note: The date of Acharya Shanakara taken here is by generic academic convention\]. By the time of Vijnana Bhikshu, several sandwich models of Advaita – Dvaita – Shaakta – Shaiva of unspecified mix has proliferated in societies. And ‘ Yoga of tradition seems to have gone underground or to the unknown peaks of Himalayas or deep forests of Vindhyas’.



One common point that all the earlier writers seem to have is ‘ Strong Yoga foundation, Personal life style commitment to explore the truth of Vyasa sampradaya ( using Brahma Sutras and Upanishads), No constraint by ‘ academic limitations and translation challenges’. It is this feature that distinguishes Vijana Bhikshu from ‘ modern advaitins’ of post 17^(th) century. Vijnana Bhikshu seems to be hitting hard on ‘ Head based advaita flowing through the lips’ and not backed by the solid foundation of ‘Yoga’.



Coming to post 19^(th) century, the best of ‘advaita’ one sees comes from ‘museum relic models of social institutions’ and scholarship that stems from this source/ which it has supported.

This flavor of ‘adviata’ begins with ‘ laukika’ and points towards ‘paaramaarthika’ pole star. These are a frozen lot by culture ; resist any tinkering with the ‘ practices’ even if it is against the very texts they profess to guard ! It is common phenomenon across every ‘ Yoga-Vedanta’ school and community. Nothing to make a finger point at any one community. Here ‘ advaita’ is more of an identity tag for a socio-cultural and religious community consolidation ; rather than any serious practice or logical precision by Acharyas text and teaching. Thus ‘ Bhakti – Karma ‘ gets more traction to such institutions rather than ‘ philosophy –mysticism’.



The university academic deliberations on ‘ advaita - philosophy’ is more of a ‘ post-mortem, class room / classical study of historical thought evolution’ ! It ends up in ‘ That author said so, and it is my understanding – opinion’. How is this going to help in practical pursuit of advaita- anubhava ? ? To give an analogy, when people take food, they eat ‘food’ for taste, survival and energy ; but ‘ food’ gests described in terms of calories and vitamins ! Does any agriculturist grow vitamins and calories ??



In this sense, it may be a worthwhile moment to think : **Does modern advaita schools fall beyond the ambit of the terms used by Vijnana Bhikshu’ . Apply Occam’s razor ! (Kshurasya Dhaaraa nishitaa ) and judge. **





No ill feeling towards any school or scholar please.



