+++
title = "030 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-06-21, 11:52:17 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/LNk0jIPbRMQ)]]



Namaste



On \< by "Yoga" the Yoga philosophy is not meant. Perhaps you are referring to the Samkhyan basis of Yoga here? >



1. The word yoga covers both the understanding, language of yoga and the practices. All the three have to be in tune with Vedas. When any one of these goes out of synch with Vedas , there will be distortion in understanding the tradition and practicing the same/ passing on the same. How to judge ‘Veda compliance of Yoga’ ? By proper understanding of ‘ Veda’. How will one get proper understanding of Veda ? One is ‘Visioning by Tapas ( Tapasaa Brahma vijijnaasasva); Two – By Swaadhyaaya ( PYS 2-1) ; Three – By Ishwara Pranidhaana / Bhakti- yoga ; Four – Kriyaa ( = Karma Yoga).



 All this needs language tools to understand the Veda Sukta for VINIYOGA ( PYS – Third Chapter. My friend Dr. Yadu Keeps repeating this issue and quoting Shaunaka). The Language of Veda is ‘ Samskrutham ( split in to two streams called Chandas and Bhashaa). The language tools needed to understand ‘Chandas’ are called ‘ Vedanga disciplines: Shikshaa, Vyakarana, Chandas and Nirukta’. The practical tools needed to practice ‘Chandas’ are Kalpa and Jyotisha. Togethere these six constitute the six vedangas. Using these vedangas, one needs to explore ‘ four Upa-Vedas’ for Purushartha and Paramartha. This is the Yoga-Viniyoga model of Yoga-Samskrutham/ Vak- Yoga. Vak-Yoga is the original Vedic name for Samskrutham.



 Please don’t think that all this is my imagination and interpretation. Please refer once again to the paper by Professor Madhva Deshpande : **The Pandit : Traditional Scholarship in India** that came up for discussions in this forum. The careful reading of the paper shows how ‘ English modeling of Sanskrit ’ changed the structure, nature, course and discourse of Sanskrit at ‘ Pune’- vidyachi Maher ( Mothers Home of Samskrutha Vidyas). The following quotes should help you to get a snap shot of the transformations and the legacy of 20^(th) century Advaita institutions, Yoga and Samskruth . Here below are the quotes.



***The quote on Page 143 of print text- (year 1888) Colonel Jacob***-:
The old Sastri's - those living encyclopedias of learning - are fast disappearing from the scene, **as an inevitable result of our rule'** .



***The quote on print page 126***: “ The sad thing is that the same English education which helped him (=Krishna Sastry Chiplunkar and Vishnusastri Chiplunkar) attain material prosperity also completely uprooted his religious faith. **The traditional branches of knowledge which he had so assiduously studied in his younger days were thrown aside in his mature age. Because of arguments from rationalists like Mill, Darwin, and Huxley, the tower of his religious faith came down crashing. As a result of the English education, he became a committed atheist**"



You can go on blaming the ‘ colonial and oriental scholars and others’ for making Battle: Sanskrit ! But it is equally important to recognize the ‘ in-house damage and dilapidation’ that has taken place; and is being sustained as ‘ preservation of tradition/ cultural relics’. 





2. Sri Venkataraghavan has provided the relevant reference for this : \< Shankaracharya does not refute the yogic system of practice - in fact he says in the brahma sUtra 




**"सांख्ययोगौहिपरमपुरुषार्थसाधनत्वेनलोकेप्रख्यातौ,शिष्टैश्चपरिगृहीतौ,लिङ्गेनचश्रौतेनोपबृंहितौ" **- sAmkhya and yoga are well recognised in the world as means for the achievement of the ultimate goal, they are accepted by the shiShTas (people whose actions and views can be relied upon as authoritative and valid) **and are supported by various indications in the shruti**.



3. If you contemplate on the yajurmantra, used to respectfully offer salutations/ welcome the yatyaashrami’s



 – ‘ **vedanta- vijnana sunishchitaarthaah**, **sanyasa-yogaat, yatayah , shuddha-sattvaah**, te brahmaloke to parrantakaale, paraamrutaat parimuchyanti sarve’. 



 The Yoga integral link to Vedanta would become clear.



4. Well then, would this ‘sannyasa- yoga’ ( = diluted meaning as saffron wearing, institutional heads and social workers of different genre ??!) be for all, off the shelf, free for freewheeling discussion ? The answer is NO !



 Who said this ? Who set this filtering condition ? When ? Where ? How ?



 One is Gita: All yoga’s Told to ‘Arjuna’ on the filtering condition of ‘ bhaktosi me…’. And iti guhya-tamaḿ śāstram idam uktaḿ mayānagha, etad buddhvā buddhimān syāt kṛta-kṛtyaś ca bhārata ( Gita 15.20) Yoga is needed for Krutakrutyataa of Vedanta jnana.



 Second is Patanjali yoga –Sutras (1-1) Atha Yogaanushaasnam. Yoga is custom guidance for the individual, after examining the need, competency and final application.



Acharya Shankara reestablished the Yoga-Vedanta connection that was lost in the ‘ Prasthana- Traya’ model. Acharya Madhva perfected this with a social orientation of ‘ Bhati Yoga-Vednata’ by defining the frame of what constitutes ‘Shaastra’ – ( Rugaadayascha Chatvaarah, bharatam pancharaatrakam, moola raamaayanam chaiva, shaastram ityabhideeyate).

Acharya Madhvas definition of ‘Shaastra’ is an inclusive expansion of ‘ Prasthana Traya’ concept by Acharya Shankara. Both acknowledge the Yoga foundation of Vedanta.



By Vijnana Bhikshus time, Yoga itself had suffered a set back in understanding and practice. The mix of ‘yoga’ with practices from ‘ tantra- aagama –purana’ and ‘ non-vedic Buddhist and Jain streams’ must have been highly confusing. So the strong comment of vijnana bhikshu ( 16^(th) century) seems goes on record.



Has the situation changed for good or bad in 21 st century ? I leave this to your personal reasoned judgment.

What is the action ‘ System Restore Point for Re-Booting’ ? – Veda, Valmiki, Vyasa, Gita, Buddha, Patanjali, Chandra gupta Maurya, Vedanta-Acharyas … World Parliament of Religions… Aurobindo, ….. I leave you to make your own choice .



Regards

BVK Sastry







**From:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() \[mailto:[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\] **On Behalf Of** ??????????  
**Sent:** Thursday, 21 June, 2018 6:26 AM  
**To:** भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्  
**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} meaning



Sri BVK Sastry garu,



