+++
title = "000 Dr. P. Ramanujan"

+++
[[Dr. P. Ramanujan	2016-06-23, 13:54:28 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/0ssHLk41Pic)]]



Dr. B Madhu of Pattambi Govt. Sanskrit College has done the complete Magha study computationally for his Ph.D, long back.

I had helped him.



Ramanujan

  
On June 23, 2016 at 1:04 PM "Dr. Anupama Ryali" \<[anupa...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:

> 
> > 
> > 
> > Dear Scholars,  
> > 
> > Pranaams,  
> > 
> > Please find below link of E-text of Śiśupālavadha of Māgha (Cantos I > to IV).  
> <http://sanskrit.uohyd.ac.in/scl>  
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >   
> This is a project of Post Doctoral Research approved by U.G.C., on > Śiśupālavadha of Māgha through a complete computational linguistic > approach, being done under the mentorship of Prof.Amba Kulkarni.  
> > 
> > 
> > Suggestions are welcome. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Thanks & regards, >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > Dr. ANUPAMA RYALI, >
> 
> > 
> > POST DOCTORAL RESEARCH FELLOW - U.G.C., >
> 
> > 
> > DEPARTMENT OF SANSKRIT STUDIES, >
> 
> > 
> > UNIVERSITY OF HYDERABAD, >
> 
> > 
> > HYDERABAD. >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > --  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> For more options, visit [**MailScanner has detected definite fraud in > the website at "groups.google.com". Do *not* trust this website:** > https://groups.google.com/d/optout](https://groups.google.com/d/optout).

  


  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
\[ C-DAC is on Social-Media too. Kindly follow us at:  
Facebook: <https://www.facebook.com/CDACINDIA> & Twitter: @cdacindia \]  
  
This e-mail is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may  
contain confidential and privileged information. If you are not the  
intended recipient, please contact the sender by reply e-mail and destroy  
all copies and the original message. Any unauthorized review, use,  
disclosure, dissemination, forwarding, printing or copying of this email  
is strictly prohibited and appropriate legal action will be taken.  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

