+++
title = "001 Arun"

+++
[[Arun	2010-09-29, 10:26:43 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/hznR1ICiUX8)]]



There are some in built attitudes which go against impartial or any  
research. Science means tally of writing and observation. When they  
match, we should be happy. My whole knowledge is based on devotion to  
scholars, but it is irritatig that we search for just the opposit  
things to disprove every written records. All over India, there are  
specific vedic words in each region-that is related to geographical  
location, Lokapala and subjects under consideration. When Indra has  
been stated as Lokapala of east, why his evidence should be searched  
only in west. Only when it is not in east as expected, we may look  
elsewhere. Similalry, all calculations tally from traditional dates of  
Kali era within 3 minutes of error which is far better than 26-68  
hours error in NASA software for 3100 BC. But research is only for  
finding revised dates. Tally of theory and observation is only purpose  
of any scientific research. I have given evidences for Indra's work in  
west also (Shakra, Pakashasana), but it angers you, as it does not  
suite British aim of declaring all Indians as foreigners. From 500 BC  
to 200 AD-no Greek or Roman writer was aware about Indians coming from  
out side in 1500 BC, though they were aware about invasion of Dionysus  
on India in 6777 BC-154 generation of Indian kings before Alexander.  
All have made the first comment that India is only country where  
nobody has come from outside. But none is evience. Only doubtful  
readings of a single word (e.g. 'Chandra' on Delhi Iron Pillar) or  
symbol is evidence as it can be twisted in desired way. Nobody dares  
to look at chronology of 6777 BC or of 15500 BC referred by them. Such  
determined opposition to records and matching evidences is irritating.  
That is the reason, I had to read the originals, being a physics  
student. Before reading any book of Oxford tradition, see their  
purpose e.g Introduction by Monier Williams in his Sanskrit English  
Dictionary, or Life and works of Maxmuller(Longman, London, 1906)-  
clear aim of destruction of Vedic culture has been indicated in them.  
No Histian in British period has ever heard about any calender, but  
they observe festivals under rules framed by Vikramaditya Samvat.  
Akbar is described as semi-literate, but he knew the difference  
between Amali and Fasali eras. Has any British pattern historian heard  
about Shaka and Samvatsara? At most they will call Shalivahana Shaka  
as Shaka-samvat which has no meaning. Either they should learn basic  
things or leave research to literate persons -Arun  

î—“

