+++
title = "033 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-09-04, 08:22:39 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/D1tgaA-NM-o)]]



Namaste



On \< jhakgirish \<[jhakg...@gmail.com]()\> wrote: Dear Professor Sahab, .. I am indeed delighted. ***But you don't remember the Divine Couple including*** Rajarajeshwari Alabeli Aparimitakarunaamayi Sachchidaanandarupaa Radha ShriKrishnasya paanigrihiti api vane Brahmavaivartaanusaarena.Although SriKrisna is Akaaranakarunaavarunaalayah but in doing karunaa Raadhaa goes superior to Shri Krishna as She never examines her Bhaktas especially sharanaagatas. > : 



The ‘poetic license’ and ‘academic freedom’ to the free flow of ‘ Kavi- Pratibhaa’ should not be saddled with ‘ reins of ‘ vedanta’. 



Enjoy ‘ kaavya’ as ‘ Kaavya’ . Don’t force every Kaavya to be a bhkati Kaavya saddled with specific sampradaya.



In any case the ‘poet has indicated that he has covered the suggested idea by the statement – ‘Many of my earlier verses did indeed deal with Radha. No Krishna without Radha. Indeed.’.



Regards

BVK Sastry





**From:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() \[mailto:[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\] **On Behalf Of** jhakgirish  
**Sent:** Monday, 3 September, 2018 3:52 PM  
**To:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Continuing my Krishna verses



Dear Professor Paturi,

I am very pleased to read your question about Sri Radhaji.Vrindavana is the centre of Sri Krisna bhakti.Devotees belonging to

all schools have established their Asramas and mathas there.As far as I know all schools wordhip sriKrisna with Radha.There are various quotations relating to it are avl. In different puranas.DeviBhahavata,Padma,Skanda,Brahmavaivarta,etc.and Gargasamhita,Brahmasamhita,etc.many Pancharatra texts read that Radha and Krisna are two apparent forms of One and the single [Paramatmaa.Acc.to](http://Paramatmaa.Acc.to) the Gargasamhita the all 8 pataraanis are the manifest forms of sri Radhaji.She is not mentioned
only in the SrimadBhagavata which is explained by Mahatmas with diifferent views.Saguna Upasanaa is yugala Upasanaa.I have known that in some parts of India Rukmini and Vitthala are worshipped.Bhagavaan SriKrisna says on different occasions that if Radha is not happy I am never happy.The supernatural Goloka is here depicted with many legends popular in Vaisnava's homes.Similarly in sri SitaRam Upasanaa without sita's pleasure Ram is never pleased.This had been written by Karapatra Swami in his book titled Bhaktisudha.

Nothing more do I know.I am an ordinary man following Upasakas like you people.Please excuse me if I wrote something contrary to the Shastras.

Pranamami bhuyah.





-------- Original message --------





