+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-10-28, 03:07:07 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/xil5lmwfAhc)]]



Population Genetic Structure in Indian Austroasiatic speakers: The Role of Landscape Barriers and Sex-specific Admixture

Gyaneshwer Chaubey; Mait Metspalu; Ying Choi; Reedik Magi; Irene Gallego Romero; Pedro Soares; Mannis van Oven; Doron M. Behar; Siiri Rootsi; Georgi Hudjashov; Chandana Basu Mallick; Monika Karmin; Mari Nelis; Juri Parik; Alla Goverdhana Reddy; Ene Metspalu; George van Driem; Yali Xue; Chris Tyler-Smith; Kumarasamy Thangaraj; Lalji Singh; Maido Remm; Martin B. Richards; Marta Mirazon Lahr; Manfred Kayser; Richard Villems; Toomas Kivisild

*Molecular Biology and Evolution* 2010; doi: 10.1093/molbev/msq288

**Abstract**

The geographic origin and time of dispersal of Austroasiatic (AA) speakers, presently settled in South and Southeast Asia, remains disputed. Two rival hypotheses, both assuming a demic component to the language dispersal, have been proposed. The first of these places the origin of Austroasiatic speakers in Southeast Asia with a later dispersal to South Asia during the Neolithic, whereas the second hypothesis advocates pre-Neolithic origins and dispersal of this language family from South Asia. To test the two alternative models this study combines the analysis of uniparentally inherited markers with 610,000 common SNP loci from the nuclear genome. Indian AA speakers have high frequencies of Y chromosome haplogroup O2a; our results show that this haplogroup has significantly higher diversity and coalescent time (17-28 KYA) in Southeast Asia, strongly supporting the first of the two hypotheses. Nevertheless, the results of principal component and “*structure*-like” analyses on autosomal loci also show that the population history of AA speakers in India is more complex, being characterised by two ancestral components - one represented in the pattern of Y chromosomal and EDAR results, the other by mtDNA diversity and genomic structure. We propose that AA speakers in India today are derived from dispersal from Southeast Asia, followed by extensive sex-specific admixture with local Indian populations.

[http://mbe.oxfordjournals.org/content/early/2010/10/26/molbev.msq288.abstract.html?  
ijkey=fq81NDB59bHykIm&keytype=ref](http://mbe.oxfordjournals.org/content/early/2010/10/26/molbev.msq288.abstract.html?ijkey=fq81NDB59bHykIm&keytype=ref)

Excerpts from article:

However, as argued by Fuller (Fuller 2007), the genetic evidence of independent domestications for the *Oryza indica* and *japonica* cultivars of *Oryza japonica* suggests a plausible alternative scenario (Figure 1C) by which the homeland of the Austroasiatic family lies in India. If *O. indica* rice was indeed domesticated first in India, then its spread to Southeast Asia may have been coupled with the spread of Austroasiatic speakers (Fuller 2007)….



**CONCLUSIONS**

****

Thus, our analyses of genetic data from uniparentally and biparentally inherited loci provide a

range of estimates of gene flow across geographic and linguistic borders. The analysis of

autosomal data suggests bidirectional gene flow across the Bay-of-Bengal restricted to

Austroasiatic and Tibeto-Burman speaking populations. The presence of a significant

(approximately one quarter) Southeast Asian genetic component among Indian Munda speakers

is consistent with this model, implying their recent dispersal from Southeast Asia followed by

extensive admixture with local Indian populations. The strongest signal of Southeast Asian

genetic ancestry among Indian Austroasiatic speakers is maintained in their Y chromosomes,

with approximately two thirds falling into haplogroup O2a. Geographic patterns of genetic

diversity of this haplogroup are consistent with its origin in Southeast Asia approximately 20

KYA, followed by more recent dispersal(s) to India. Comparison of mtDNA and Y chromosome

data reveals that the “import of local genes”, at least in case of the Munda speakers of India, has likely been biased towards the female sex resulting in a situation where the Southeast Asian

ancestry signal in the mtDNA lineages of Indian Munda speakers has been entirely lost. Further

sampling of Southeast Asian Austro-Asiatic speaking populations and genome-wide sequence

data along with in-silico simulations would be required in the future to assess the demographic

parameters of population dispersals between South and Southeast Asia in explicit time frames.

Full text of article: [http://mbe.oxfordjournals.org/content/early/2010/10/26/molbev.msq288.full.pdf?  
ijkey=fq81NDB59bHykIm&keytype=ref](http://mbe.oxfordjournals.org/content/early/2010/10/26/molbev.msq288.full.pdf?ijkey=fq81NDB59bHykIm&keytype=ref)



  

