+++
title = "000 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2012-01-05, 14:49:48 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/iZPY4IFe_nU)]]



Respected Sri Subrahmanyam,



I happened to do some research in Vedas; I have discovered pure scientific meaning of verses which have been dismissed as mere parjanya mantras. My interpretations were highly appreciated by no less a person than H.H.Sri Rangapriya Swamiji, President of the Astanga Yoga Vignana Mandiram, and considered a walking encyclopaedia in spriritual circles. But no shcolar is in a position to evaluate the same because it is pure science; which the traditional scholars are not exposed to.



On the suggestion of Waves, I had written to Satyachetana Education Trust some months back; and I was informed that the swamiji was abroad; and on his return to India, I would hear from him. But no response. I am not interested in Ph.D. or Scholarship. But I am pained that those who talk of research in Vedas are not really sensitive, pardon me, to the task involved. I do not know if mugging up Vedas is considered research? I am writing this to you, since I have been following your postings with interest; and further because you have offered to help. I am not seeking any benefit from anybody. But why aversion to know the truth? It pains me to see absurdities being bandied in the holy name of Vedas; that Ushas is the mother of Divas, etc. by scholars without as much as blinking their eyes! How can they be regarded as mother and son; when they were not seen at any time together; which every mother and child do often?



Maybe because I have freely distributed to everybody who asked; my papers are not valued. Shakespear says 'a light won prize is light'.



If you are serious I will send you a copy also. But please do something to further the cause of Vedas; not for me. Navaratna Rajarams are laughing at the Vedas. Let us stop that.



Yours fraternally,

s.r.krishna murthy.

  
  


2012/1/5 subrahmanyam korada \<[kora...@gmail.com]()\>  

> नमो विद्वद्भ्यः  
>   
> dear scholars  
>   
> please find a Forwarded Message which is self explanatory .  
> any help from my side will be forthcoming .  
>   
> धन्यो’स्मि  
>   
>   
> > 
> > ---------- Forwarded message ----------  
> From: **Vedic Research SCM** \<[sce...@gmail.com]()\>  
> Date: Thu, Jan 5, 2012 at 8:55 AM  
> Subject: fellowship for PhD in Veda  
> To:  
>   
>   
> > Om >
>   
> > 5 January 2012 >
>   
> > Blessed Soul, >
>   
> > It is with a great deal of joy that we announce the offer of a > doctoral fellowship leading to a PhD in Veda under the auspices of > University of Spiritual Research based in Napa, California, USA. We > had discussed this with some of the participants when they were > present in Tiruvannamalai for the First National Conference On RigVeda > in 2008. Now the reality is here. The fellowship is offered at the > rate of one lakkh per year for three years. >
>   
> > We hope you will circulate this news among your staff and colleagues > and encourage students to take advantage of this offer and apply. > Here is the Home page link for your > convenience:<http://www.usronline.net/USR/Welcome.html> >
>   
> > The in-depth research work Swami Sri Atmananda has envisioned is > beginning to come to the publication stage and we happily look forward > to soon making the announcement of availability of these resource > books, which will be an invaluable asset to any research on the Vedas, > in particular RigVeda. >
>   
> > We are also tentatively planning a second conference to be held here > on or around March month. It is hoped that you may also be available > to participate in this conference. We will keep you informed as dates > become available. >
>   
> > With Warmest Regards, >
>   
> > Soumya >
>   
> > Aka Sharon Messer >
> University Of Spiritual Research >
> 
> >   
>   
>   
> --  
> Prof.Korada Subrahmanyam  
> Professor of Sanskrit,  
> CALTS,  
> University of Hyderabad 500046  
> Ph:09866110741(R),91-40-23010741,040-23133660(O)  
>   
>   
>   
>   
>   
> > --  
> अथ चेत्त्वमिमं धर्म्यं संग्रामं न करिष्यसि।  
> ततः स्वधर्मं कीर्तिं च हित्वा पापमवाप्स्यसि।।  
> तस्मादुत्तिष्ठ कौन्तेय युद्धाय कृतनिश्चयः।  
> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  

  

