+++
title = "002 Shrisha Rao"

+++
[[Shrisha Rao	2009-09-12, 23:12:48 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/_qJ9jXR0gV8)]]



2009/9/12 Sreenivasa Guttal \<[vedag...@gmail.com]()\>:

\> IIIT Hyderabad has a language research center. (LTRC)  
\> You can visit<http://ltrc.iiit.ac.in/> for more.

The are quite a few such, actually. The URL <http://tdil.mit.gov.in/>  
gives a map of the relevant academic research centers in India. There  
are also a few MNC industry research labs in this area, though much of  
their work is not open; I can think of IBM (Delhi, Bangalore), HP  
(Bangalore), and Microsoft (Bangalore). CAIR under the Government of  
India does some work in this area also, primarily for security and  
defense applications.

Internationally, CMU (<http://www.lti.cs.cmu.edu/>) and MIT  
(<http://groups.csail.mit.edu/sls//sls-blue-noflash.shtml>) probably  
have the best language technologies research groups in the world,  
though there are many more.

\> 2009/9/12 JAGANADH G \<[jaga...@gmail.com]()\>  
\>\>  
\>\> Dear Teachers,  
\>\> Does anybody familier with Language lab for English or any Indian  
\>\> Language.  
\>\> If so please tell me what are the tools or setup required for a language  
\>\> lab. I would like to know the structure of language lab softwares

I think that would depend on the precise type of work to be attempted  
in the lab; it would be different for text processing than for speech  
processing, for instance; it would also be different depending on  
whether the focus is on security (e.g., biometric authentication  
through speaker/speech recognition), interactive query processing for  
e-governance (e.g., helping villagers obtain access to government  
services through a kiosk using oral interaction in their native  
languages), or whatever. There is also a lot of  
theoretical/foundational work that can be done using just using pencil  
and paper (or chalk and board). It is safe, in setting up any  
computing lab, to go with basic stuff first (standard hardware, with  
standard software development tools) and then add more bells and  
whistles based on the projects taken up and funding available.  
Ultimately too, in this day and age lack of computing power or  
software is not a bottleneck for most things; man visited the moon  
forty years ago with much less computing power than available in a  
contemporary cell phone or mp3 music player -- क्रियासिद्धिः सत्त्वे  
भवति महतां नोपकरणे, etc.

Regards,

Shrisha Rao



