+++
title = "006 hn bhat"

+++
[[hn bhat	2009-09-14, 17:30:46 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/_qJ9jXR0gV8)]]



The objective of the language as described seems to be to train in  
receiving and transmission of speech sounds closely akin to that of  
native speakers of the language while teaching the foreign students. I  
remember having attended once or twice the language lab for Russian in  
the Department in the University. But I could not pursue it as my stay  
in the University was of limited duration to continue the training.  
  
It makes sense where accent and pitch intonation plays a large part in  
communication with the native speakers. This is well experienced by  
Indian speakers of different languages, who have their own native  
speech, and know more than one language due to Indian circuamstances.  
To make the difference between the speech of the native speakers and  
the speaker foreign to that language community the least (if not  
vanished completely) is the main purpose of Language Laboratories to  
my knowledge.  
  
As for Sanskrit, it has a phonological alphabet and there is not much  
difference between the written presentation and auditory output unlike  
the languages having syllabic alphabet system of the west or  
picturesque alphabets of middle or south Asia. And, further, the  
speech speech mechanism holds good with all the Indian modern  
languages also with the phonological system of alphabet. Only minor  
differences exist between what is written and that is spoken. In  
addition, there is not a native way of pronunciation today for  
Sanskrit, as all the users of Sanskrit language today, have their own  
speech community and I am afraid, if there is any native speech  
community for Sanskrit. (I confess an effort of our day, a village, a  
house may be a district be declared as Sanskrit village, like Mattur).  
Apart from that I don't see the possibility or probability today. This  
is only what I think.  
  
Scholars may find novel objectives for Sanskrit Language Laboratory if  
set up and first of all we should be certain of those objectives and  
then set up a laboratory in line with the ones English language or any  
Indian Language.  
  
With regards  

î—“

