+++
title = "000 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2015-05-05, 03:16:37 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/h13DoLBa-zc)]]



May 4, 2015



Dear Prof. M. Deshpande,



Please send to me one scanned copy of your paper listed below. Thanks.
My email address is [giravani2juno.com](http://giravani2juno.com)

N.R.Joshi

  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: Madhav Deshpande \<[mmd...@umich.edu]()\>  
To: "[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()" \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} pronunciation and roman/phonetic transliteration of ब्रह्म, अह्न,चिह्न etc.  
Date: Sat, 2 May 2015 15:13:36 -0400  
  

Dear Dr. Paturi,



In my article "Linguistic Presuppositions of Pāṇini 8.3.26-27" \[pp. 23-42, in *Proceedings of the International Seminar on Pāṇini* (held in July 1981), ed. by S.D. Joshi and S.D. Laddu, Publications of the Centre of Advanced Study in Sanskrit, Class E, No. 9, University of Poona, Pune, 1983\], I have discussed Pāṇini's treatment of the anusvāra before *hm* and *hn*, and have noted that Kātyāyana extends this pattern to *hy, hv, hl*. I have shown that Pāṇini's treatment restricted to *hm* and *hn*, is due to specific linguistic environment of the northwestern frontier region, while Kātyāyana's extension of the same treatment to *hy, hv, hl*, is most likely due to the Prakritized pronunciation of Sanskrit, where all *h*-initial clusters of Sanskrit undergo metathesis. This metathesis is widely documented in inscriptional and literary Prakrits from Ashokan inscriptions onwards. The fact that both Pāṇini and Kātyāyana formulate their rules (*he mapare maḥ, napare naḥ,* Kātyāyana's Vārttika: *yavalapare yavalā vā*) as option rules probably indicates that the metathecised pronunciation of the *h*-clusters was still not universal, but only optional. I don't have a scan of my article, but it should be available in libraries in India.



Madhav Deshpande

Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA

  

On Sat, May 2, 2015 at 2:09 PM, nagarajpaturi \<[nagara...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> > 
> > Was there already a thread on the issue of theright pronunciation, > the present devanagari spelling,and justified roman/phonetic > transliteration of ब्रह्म,ब्राह्मी,अह्न, आह्निक,चिह्न etc.? >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > If yes, can anyone please guide me to that thread? >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Is there a discussion on this at any other source? >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > --  
> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
> ---  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.  

  
  



--  

Madhav M. Deshpande  
Professor of Sanskrit and Linguistics  
Department of Asian Languages and Cultures  
202 South Thayer Street, Suite 6111  
The University of Michigan  
Ann Arbor, MI 48104-1608, USA



--  
निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
---  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**Old School Yearbook Pics**  
View Class Yearbooks Online Free. Search by School & Year. Look Now!  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/5547e8892fbf368897e36st02vuc)[classmates.com](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/5547e8892fbf368897e36st02vuc)

