+++
title = "002 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2015-05-06, 03:40:00 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/h13DoLBa-zc)]]



May 5, 2015



Thank you Prof M. Deshpande.



I received the PDF file of the scan of your paper. N.R.Joshi

  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: Madhav Deshpande \<[mmd...@umich.edu]()\>  
To: "[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()" \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} pronunciation and roman/phonetic transliteration of ब्रह्म, अह्न,चिह्न etc.  

Date: Tue, 5 May 2015 13:00:22 -0400  
  

Dear BVP Colleagues,



  Since several members have requested the article of mine that I referred to in my earlier message, I am attaching a scan of that article \["Deshpande-Linguistic-Presuppositions-of-Panini-8.3.26-27"\]. This was a paper presented at the International Seminar on Panini held in 1981 at Pune University, and the proceedings were published in 1983.
The article is only tangentially related to the current discussion, but may be of interest to some of you.



Madhav Deshpande

Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA

  

On Tue, May 5, 2015 at 3:23 AM, Nityanand Misra \<[nmi...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> >   
>   
> On Monday, May 4, 2015 at 4:20:29 PM UTC+5:30, Madhav Deshpande wrote: >
> > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > The Pāṇinīyaśikṣā distinguishes between urasya and kaṇṭhya > > pronunciations of -h- in different contexts, but does not strictly > > speak about metathesis of -h- \[हकारं पञ्चमैर्युक्तमन्त:स्थाभिश्च > > संयुतम् । उरस्यं तं विजानीयात् कण्ठ्यमाहुरसंयुतम् ।।\]. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > The only traditional text that explicitly says that there is a > > metathesis is the Kauṇḍinyaśikṣā passage pointed out by Professor > > Shivasenani Nori: > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > I am not aware if there has been a study on this already, but one can > go through Abhinavapāṇini Paṇḍita Rāmaprasāda Tripāṭhī's compilation > of 32Śikṣā works - The Śikṣāsaṃgrahaḥ (1989, SSU) - and see how many > Śikṣā works have rules which ordain this metathesis. Some of the works > included in the book have commentaries.
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > As Prof. Deshpande has pointed out, the Pāṇinīyaśikṣā does not state > anything about metathesis, and so to cite it in support of > the‘bramha’ pronunciation is not a sound argument. >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Paṇḍita Rāmaprasāda Tripāṭhī's work can be viewed here
> > 
> > 
> > <https://archive.org/details/shikshasamgraha> >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > --  
> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
> ---  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>. >
> 
> > 

  
  



--  

Madhav M. Deshpande  
Professor of Sanskrit and Linguistics  
Department of Asian Languages and Cultures  
202 South Thayer Street, Suite 6111  
The University of Michigan  
Ann Arbor, MI 48104-1608, USA



