+++
title = "021 MVSSP AGNI"

+++
[[MVSSP AGNI	2018-12-27, 17:58:16 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/6__TrQhY1jA)]]



Thank you sir for your suggestion of studying near a local scholar . Since 2007 nearly 6 years of my time was wasted feeling that an organization will teach me . Later one person himself offered me that he will make me as like as an astrology pandit like him and started the BRIHAJJATAKA of varahamihira and after first chapter he stopped later on . Nearly a two years of my time was wasted there . I applied for a distance course in acharya vyakaran and when I went to study class but that also not worked . In my learning period only one teacher who is a traditional vedic scholar has given his efforts to teach me . Because of him atleast iam having respect on the teachers otherwise my belief may be some thing else . He taught me up to the sabdadhikara in kaumudi along with his grand son who is also a vedic scholar. Out of these 10 to 12 years of learning period only 1 year in which kaumudi was taught is productive for me . Later on i understood that there is a difference between a vidwamsa and a guru . I stopped later on and trying to read the scriptures my self . Me too was interested that any person will teach me the " govinda rajeeya of ramayana " or the " shreedhareeya " vyakhyana of bhagavatam at that time . But no option is available for me even to study the 5 kavya in akanksha style . I asked the doubt in ramayana and raghuvamsa because iam presently reading the gita press edition of ramayana and got a doubt when I read the linage of rama . And I expressed that in front all of you so that it can be clarified . Secondly, locating valmiki in ramayanam by site seeing is a possible one. Getting the route map of geographical locations is a normal task but the names of some places and some rivers are changed. It's well known that VIPASA river means bias , Satadru means satlez at now and ganga is well known but what about the other rivers such as malinis, sarasana, ikshumati, SILAVAHA, Uttanaka, kapeevati, sthanumati rivers which comes in the route of ayodhya to kekaya? Several cities names are also changed how can I locate? It's research it accept it. It can be done too by using the speed of horses, no.of hours, rest at night, travelling days. But can we guarantee that our view is correct? Being ramayana was happend in the treta yuga of 24 th mahayuga and we are having  28 th mahayuge kaliyuga then how can I feel that my search was right? It just a belief to myself and others whose perspective is only based on the mechanical manner.



