+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2011-01-25, 08:12:21 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/XfYjWUdrOXY)]]



WWW Resource The Electronic Anthropologist: on sources of information,  
strategies, techniques and timing of online research \[A Farewell Gift\]  
\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*  
Ed. note: Here is further notice of the pending retirement of Dr. T. Matthew Ciolek, and a chance to revisit an area in which he has made so many contributions to scholars and scholarship. His observations are grounded in a quarter-century of taking the pulse of the internet. Hehas put us all in his debt.                    
-----------------------------------------------------------------------  
From: Reviews of Internet resources for Asian Studies  
  \<[asia-www...@anu.edu.au]()\>  
  
The Asian Studies WWW Monitor: Jan 2011, Vol. 18, No. 1 (320)  
--------------------------------------------------------------  
21 Jan 2011  
  
The Electronic Anthropologist: on sources of information, strategies,  
techniques and timing of online research \[A Farewell Gift\]  
  
[www.ciolek.com](http://www.ciolek.com) - Asia Pacific Research Online, Canberra, Australia.  
  
Supplied-note:  
"With 5,869 reviews of the Asian Studies internet resources  
successfully dispatched, the time has come to say goodbyes -  
  
(1) So, thank you, all my 9,260 wonderful online- and off-line  
collaborators, colleagues and friends.  
  
(2) It was your steadfast love of information that has sparked and  
guided my electronic labours.  
  
(3) Now I take my egret-plumed hat off, and lower it to the  
flagstones with a mighty sweep.  
  
(4) I bow to You All most deeply. I promise to answer (alas,  
inevitably with a delay) all your private messages that have reached  
me in these last days. I bow to You again and present a compact,  
43KB, parting gift (below). Have fun with it, if/when so inclined.  
  
(5) Now, My Unforgettable Monitorians, au revoir: I am signing off  
for good - tmc."  
  
Self-description:  
"Information of relevance and value to social scientists is scattered  
- as individual items as well as clusters and collections - across  
three vast and vastly different habitats of knowledge. The first of  
them is formed by the overlapping networks of interconnected,  
data-swapping computers. There the information is stored as  
electronic bits. The second habitat is a great planetary labyrinth of  
interacting and competing museums, archives, and libraries. This is  
the physical world where information is stored as tangible objects -  
books, manuscripts, microfilms, artifacts - and kept on shelves, or  
in vaults. Finally, there is the boundless archipelago of groups and  
clusters of people themselves. Researchers, experts, archivists,  
journalists, court-clerks, shamans, interested laymen, students,  
librarians, managers, and so forth form the third habitat of  
knowledge. There the information is stored in biological form, either  
etched in the memories of people, or created by them afresh.  
This article is concerned with research uses of the first of those  
three informational environments, that is, with quests for digital  
pointers and digital contents that are available via the Internet. It  
represents an abridged extract from an extensive 2009 work \[approx.  
145KB\] entitled 'The logistics of effective online information  
seeking,' a research paper with a number of technical appendices, now  
available online at  
<http://www.ciolek.com/PAPERS/logistics-of-online-information-seeking.html>  
address.  
  
\[The article evaluates\] methods of electronic investigation that  
people can undertake within the domain of the Internet. Therefore,  
the questions posed by this paper are not 'what are the best ways to  
obtain information online?', or 'what are the best sources of  
electronic information?', but rather - 'under what methodological  
circumstances is our online research most likely to succeed?' So it  
is not an enumeration of tools and opportunities, but rather a  
meta-assessment of these."  
  
Site contents:  
1. Introduction  
(# The habitats of scholarly information, # Earlier studies of  
information-seeking practices);  
  
2. Internet, The Electronic Environment of Information  
\["Two things about the Internet, the electronic environment of  
information, are immediately apparent to any observer: its dire lack  
of organization and its enormous physical size. The Internet is a  
highly unpredictable and confused place, and the materials it carries  
are of very uneven quality."\];  
  
3. The Logistics of Online Information Seeking  
(# The First Logistical Element: Research Strategy \[Confirm, Link,  
Deliver, Chase, Form, Match, Explore, Mull\], # The Second Logistical  
Element: Online Resources \[Databases, Search engines, Online  
directories, Repositories, "Flowing" websites, "Frozen" websites,  
Collaborative environments, Gatherings, Feeds\], # The Third  
Logistical Element: Work Schedules \[Urgent, Standard, Long-term\], #  
The Fourth Logistical Element: Data-Gathering Techniques \[Ask, Query,  
Search, Browse, Track, Comb, Monitor, Collect input, Trigger input,  
Invite input\]);  
  
4. Six Constraints of Information Seeking  
\["None of the above four logistical aspects of online research - the  
strategies, online resources, work schedules, and data-gathering  
techniques - ever occurs alone. On the contrary - they always work in  
concert, as a dynamic system. Together they form six unique  
combinations, in some of which these variables seem to 'work together  
especially well', that is, when they appear to be supportive of each  
other, and appear (in the experience of this author) to be  
productive."\];  
  
5. Conclusions  
\["\[W\]hile at the surface level the Internet appears to be defined  
mostly by our interactions with the disembodied, cold-headed  
technology, ultimately the full research value of the Net is best  
realised through multifaceted intellectual relationships that we can  
form with other human beings that are contactable online. Seen from  
this point of view, the modern Internet becomes a virtual bridge  
which links the three habitats of information. Firstly, the Internet  
almost instantaneously connects the researcher with the online  
containers of digital information he or she seeks. Secondly, it spans  
the gap between a researcher and the pointers to the masses of  
analogue data preserved in libraries, archives, historical monuments,  
and museums. Thirdly, the Net is a superb tool for the closure of the  
gap between a researcher and the wealth of skills and wisdom of his  
or her colleagues, no matter who they are, and where they work."\];  
  
6. Acknowledgments;  
  
7. Bibliography \[43 specialist publications from the years 1995-2008,  
including online research notes of that mysterious, motley and  
seminal man himself, Francesco Vianello, aka Fjalar Ravia  
(1952-2009)\].  
  
URL <http://www.ciolek.com/PAPERS/e-anthropologist.html>  
  
Internet Archive ([web.archive.org](http://web.archive.org)) \[the site was not archived at the  
time of this abstract\]  
  
Link reported by: T. Matthew Ciolek ([tmciolek--at--coombs.anu.edu.au](http://tmciolek--at--coombs.anu.edu.au))  
  
\* Resource type \[news - documents - study - corporate info. - online guide\]:  
Study  
\* Publisher \[academic - business - govt. - library/museum - NGO - other\]:  
Academic  
\* Scholarly usefulness \[essential - v.useful - useful - interesting -  
marginal\]:  
rating not available  
--------------------------------------------------------------  
Src: The Asian Studies WWW Monitor ISSN 1329-9778  
URL <http://coombs.anu.edu.au/asia-www-monitor.html>  
URL <http://mailman.anu.edu.au/mailman/listinfo/asia-www-monitor>  
The e-journal \[established 21 Apr 1994 - closed down 21 Jan 2011\]  
has provided free abstracts and reviews of new/updated online resources  
of interest to Asian Studies.  
At the day of its closure, the email edition of this Journal had over  
9,260 subscribers.  
The AS WWW Monitor did not necessarily endorse contents,  
or policies of the Internet resources it dealt with.  
  
Any questions related to the past or future of the e-journal are to be directed  
exclusively to the following email address: [web...@anu.edu.au]()  
  
- regards -  
  
Dr T. Matthew Ciolek
[mattew.ciolek--at--anu.edu.au](http://mattew.ciolek--at--anu.edu.au)  
ANU College of Asia and the Pacific,  
The Australian National University, Canberra, Australia  
also, Asia Pacific Research Online at [www.ciolek.com](http://www.ciolek.com)  
\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

  

The Asian Studies WWW Monitor: Sep 2010, Vol. 17, No. 11 (316)  
--------------------------------------------------------------  
28 Sep 2010  
  
Digital Library of India (DLI) \[with over 230,000 online books\]  
  
Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, India.  
  
Self-description:  
"Digital Library of India \[est. circa 2003 - ed.\] - Hosted by: Indian  
Institute of Science, Bangalore in co-operation with CMU, IIIT, NSF,  
ERNET and MCIT for the Govt. of India and 21 participating centers.  
\[...\] The primary long-term objective is to capture all books in  
digital format. It is believed that such a task is impossible and  
could take hundreds of years, and never be completed. Thus, as a  
first step we are planning to demonstrate the feasibility by  
undertaking to digitize 1 million books (less than 1% of all books in  
all languages ever published) by 2005. \[...\] One of the goals of the  
Digital Library of India is to provide support for full text indexing  
and searching based on OCR (optical character recognition)  
technologies where available. \[...\] This 24x7 resource would also  
provide an excellent test bed for language processing research in  
areas such as machine translation, optical character recognition,  
summarization, speech and hand writing recognition, intelligent  
indexing, and information retrieval in Indian languages. It is our  
expectation that the Digital Library of India will be mirrored at  
several locations worldwide so as to protect the integrity and  
availability of the data. The DLI will also partner with other  
country specific Digital Libraries initiatives as part of the  
Universal Library Project ([www.ulib.org](http://www.ulib.org/)) \[...\]."  
  
Site contents:  
\* Vision;  
\* Mission;  
\* Goals;  
\* Benefits,  
\* Content Selection (1. Coordination of Selection, 2. Non-copyrighted  
materials, 3. Best books approach);  
\* Current Status;  
\* People (Academia, Government, CMU \[Carnegie Mellon University,  
USA\], US Advisors, China, The Team, Past Project Assistants);  
\* Partners;  
\* Funding;  
\* Copyright Policy;  
\* FAQ;  
\* RFP;  
\* Members;  
\* Search (# Title, # Author, # Year, # Subject \[35 subjects ranging  
from Art and Architecture through History and Marketing to Sociology,  
Statistics and Zoology\], # Language \[Any Language, Arabic, Assamese,  
Bengali, Bhojpuri, English, French, German, Greek, Gujarati, Hindi,  
Irish, Italian, Kannada, Malayalam, Marathi, Nepali, Norwegian,  
Oriya, Pali, Persian, Portuguese, Punjabi, Russian, Spanish,  
Sanskrit, Swedish, Tamil, Telugu, Tibetan, Urdu, Multi, Others,  
Unknown\], # Scanning Centre \[select from the list of the 25 Indian  
centers involved in the project\] \* Search (# Title, # Author, # Year,  
# Subject \[35 subjects ranging from Art and Architecture through  
History and Marketing to Sociology, Statistics and Zoology\], #  
Language \[Any Language, Arabic, Assamese, Bengali, Bhojpuri, English,  
French, German, Greek, Gujarati, Hindi, Irish, Italian, Kannada,  
Malayalam, Marathi, Nepali, Norwegian, Oriya, Pali, Persian,  
Portuguese, Punjabi, Russian, Spanish, Sanskrit, Swedish, Tamil,  
Telugu, Tibetan, Urdu, Multi, Others, Unknown\], # Scanning Centre  
\[select from the list of the 25 Indian centers involved in the  
project\]);  
\* Free online access to both the metadata for and contents of all  
scanned books);  
\* Books from Partner Sites;  
\* Presentations and Report;  
\* Statistics Report;  
\* Status Report \[No of Books scanned by 28 Sep 2010 = 231,679; No of  
Pages scanned by 28 Sep 2010 = 81,388,365 - ed.\];  
\* Feedback;  
\* Recent collection;  
\* Recent updates;  
\* Partner site with PDF collection.  
  
URL<http://www.dli.ernet.in/>  
  
Internet Archive<http://web.archive.org/web/*/http://www.dli.ernet.in/>  
  
Link reported by: T. Matthew Ciolek ([tmciolek--at--coombs.anu.edu.au](http://tmciolek--at--coombs.anu.edu.au/))  
  
\* Resource type \[news - documents - study - corporate info. - online guide\]:  
Corporate info. / Study  
\* Publisher \[academic - business - government - library/museum - NGO - other\]:  
Government / Academic  
\* Scholarly usefulness \[essential - v.useful - useful - interesting -  
marginal\]:  
Essential  
\* External links to the resource \[over 3,000 - under 3,000 - under 1,000  
 - under 300 - under 100 - under 30\]: No statistics is available  
--------------------------------------------------------------  
Src: The Asian Studies WWW Monitor ISSN 1329-9778  
URL<http://coombs.anu.edu.au/asia-www-monitor.html>  
URL<http://mailman.anu.edu.au/mailman/listinfo/asia-www-monitor>  
The e-journal \[est. 21 Apr 1994\] provides free abstracts  
and reviews of new/updated online resources of interest to Asian Studies.  
The email edition of this Journal has now over 9,120 subscribers.  
The AS WWW Monitor does not necessarily endorse contents,  
or policies of the Internet resources it deals with.  

