+++
title = "003 R. Narayana iyengar"

+++
[[R. Narayana iyengar	2012-07-01, 12:48:27 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/68uHoI_irh0)]]



  

Dear Dr.Joshi,

Here is my unscholarlyresponse toyour post. Pardon me.

I have heard of"onomatopoeic words" particularly "pilippila". Perhaps Jharjhara, marmara (english murmur?), काकः,कुक्कुट,डमरु, taTit,
DiNDima, may belong to this class. In such cases theअर्थmay be inherentin theशब्दwhich I take as the 'heard sound' leading tosome type of श्रवणेन्द्रियजन्यज्ञानं . Now if you claim shabda is nitya (=constant, unchanging,eternal, natural) I have no problem in accepting it. But how can meaning be constant? When you talk of संस्कृतं as a language are you referring to the 'spoken one' that Panini concentrated on or the later written textual language? I prefer to have a clear distinction on this since leaving aside the temporal/historical changes is not rational. May be I have not understood you when you bring up the issue of Sanskrit being divine-language. You will have to define 'divine', an unenviable proposition! Nevertheless what I could not follow is with नानार्थकोष being recognized as valid how can there be स्फोट of unique meaning of a isolated written/printed word for a reader (like me) without carrying thecontinuity of the context in the mind?. This is no more श्रवणेन्द्रियजन्य except by स्मरणं.

The changing meaning of technical words in Sanskrit is quite dangerous!

kind regards for thought provoking posts.

RN Iyengar

  
  


> From: "Gmail Team" \<[girav...@juno.com]()\>  
> Date: Jun 23, 9:39pm  
> Subject: Meaning of the shabda "Nitya"  
> To: भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्  
>   
>   
> June 23, 2012 Respected Scholars, Namaskar! Meaning of the shabda  
> 'Nitya" I think there is some confusion here in my mind. Sanskrit  
> scholars think that the meaning of shabdas are Nitya. Do they mean  
> Nitya the same as conventional? This way I understand. The English  
> word 'Serendipity' is the conventional word. It came from the name  
> "Sinhala Dweepa" (Ceylon). In short English superimposed new meaning  
> on the word derived from the name of the island. If meaning-shabda  
> relation in Sanskrit is eternal (Nitya), they how could be  
> conventional at the same time? Conventional meanings go on changing.  
> If meanings of Sanskrit words are conventional like any other  
> language, then Sanskrit could not be a divine language (Deva-vaNee).  
> It is on the footing the same as other languages. If whatever comes  
> down from Shabda-Brahma into VaikharI the same in all languages, > then  
> Sanskrit is not special. On the other hand if something has to come  
> down from Shabda -Brahma, then it has to happen in the way of > nature.  
> And in case of Vaikhari the only natural thing is acoustic > properties  
> of Sanskrit varNas. If VarNas have constant (Nitya) meanings, then  
> shabdas have also constant(Nitya) meanings. People may change it. > That  

> is different story. Please enlighten us.In my opinion, in UpAdAna



