+++
title = "001 Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)	2015-11-07, 10:27:48 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/aaJhoqY2B_M)]]



Namaste



Thank you Dr. Prabhakar for bringing focus to the question which is a pointer to the handshake of ‘Veda’ and ‘Ayur-Veda’ for the ultimate benefit of ‘Health’, line of thought that exists in traditional schools ever since the source books were composed.



If this line of traditional thinking connecting Veda-Ayurveda- Yoga for Health, present in ‘ Veda (Mantra-) Shaastra as the basis for Yaaga (Karma Kanda) ’ - is understood, then the word ‘Aahuti’ in ‘Agnimukha-Yajna’ is pointer to the way these ‘ vanaspati- phala –kanda –moola’ needs to be administered to the ‘ person having the disease related to ‘ Prana-Shakti imbalance’, the real beneficiary of yajna. What is ‘ Agni-mukha –Svaahaakaara mantra-aahuti’ in yajna is ‘ Vaishvanara –Agni-Praana –agni aahuti inside body, as medicine in Ayurveda.



The physical ‘aahuti’ of materials in yajna is for the purpose of fulfilling a procedure laid down for the Ritviks. Ritviks are implementers of vidhi;. They are not designers of vidhi. The ‘physical burning of the fruits in external fire’ will not cure the disease ( or imbalance) of the ‘ body’.



The ‘ prescribed materials – fruits and other items, from nature, need to be ‘ energized with Prana -rasa, using the Mantras ( of Chandi Patha
or other Veda mantras)’. Vanaspati rasodbhuto, gandhaadyo sumanoharah.. is the sloka for contemplation).

This approach of ‘ mantra based health care in Ayurveda’, called ‘Praanaacharya tradition’ seems to be a forgotten technique. The methods provided in texts are for transforming ‘ dravya /drava - padartha’ through a ‘naivedya process’ to become ‘ Prasada’ (Sattva-Shuddha) . The broken skeletons of this practice are noticed
in the abuse called energy medicine in current yoga related international health markets and ‘ parihara homam’ in the name of Veda at some other places. A yajna, to give its specific ‘phala’ needs to be done with right kind of ‘mantra –viniyoga’. Dr.Vamkshikrishna Ghanapathi can provide ample details here. 



The current practice of Ayur-veda, Yoga and Jytoisha – in India and elsewhere have distanced themselves from each other and embraced new bed partners and models of study and practice. The prescribed tradition of Charaka- Sushruta –Vagbhatta for Ayurveda and Patanjali prescribed guidance for Yoga-Samskrutham studies are at best offered lip sympathy . The original design and thought of unified approach of three disciplines for Total Health Welfare needs a fundamental re-search and course correction, to understand why a tradition like ‘offering specific fruits for each chapter of Chandi patha-Homa’ was originally designed and helped society . This seems to me to be the biggest benefit Samskrit can offer to the current society as next step of ‘ sambhashanam’.



Regards

BVK Sastry



--  
निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
---  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

