+++
title = "000 Dr.Sampadananda"

+++
[[Dr.Sampadananda	2014-09-22, 15:31:47 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/4SD5694Rv5o)]]



Dear Friends, you will be glad to know that SAFIC has organised an Exhibition on the Wonders of Sanskrit Alphabet. This Exhibition is on from 22nd to 30th of this month...  
Below I give the Introduction to the Exhibition:  

# Introduction

  

**Sanskrit, indeed, is one of the most exceptional languages of the world, perfect and highly potent in its linguistic expression. The very alphabet of this language is flawless and comprehensive. Organized scientifically within the five distinct mouth positions, the sounds of Sanskrit are extraordinarily capable of creating the highest degree of resonance and clarity of articulation. Because of its inherent logic, systematic presentation and adherence to only the most clear and most pure sounds, Sanskrit alphabet is perhaps the easiest in the world to learn and recall. **

**One of the most important features of Sanskrit alphabet is that here the phonemes are phonetically exact. Here vowels and consonants are separated in two distinct groups. The classification of the phonemes here is based on voicing state, manner of articulation and place of articulation. One also finds the classification of sounds here as per the intraoral pressure required to produce them. In this way, Sanskrit alphabet is more scientific, methodical and comprehensive than alphabets of other languages. Indeed, there is so much scientific information in Sanskrit which needs to be rediscovered, given a new form and made part of education and life.**

**This exhibition *Varëamälä* is organized to explore not just the wonders and splendours of Sanskrit Alphabet, but also to unleash the power of primal sounds which hold the key to the cosmic sound and reflect the prime power of creation. **

**The Main Focus of the Exhibition is threefold:**

**· Phonetic Values of the Sounds of Sanskrit Alphabet**

**· Inner significances of the Letters of the Sanskrit Alphabet**

**· Practical Value of Learning Sanskrit Alphabet**

**The exhibition is open to all, to spread the experience of the beauty and charm of an ancient Indian treasure. ****

  
[You can see the Facebook post here:](https://www.facebook.com/aurosociety/photos/a.461389107247455.102586.202631233123245/721444877908542/?type=1&theater)  
  
Thanks  
Sampadananda Mishra  
Director, SAFIC  

