+++
title = "000 B.N. Patnaik"

+++
[[B.N. Patnaik	2009-05-19, 00:11:05 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/D9Vi9yM7Tf0)]]



Dear Professor Joshi,  
  
This is with regard to the questions you raised in your mail: about (a)  
the use of the theory of sphota in Sanskrit linguistics and (b) whether  
understanding of Sanskrit sentences would be affected in any way if the  
theory is dropped.  
  
My tentative response is as follows:  
  
(a)The theory of sphota, as I see it, is a theory that tries to account  
for the way a linguistic expression is assigned interpretation by the  
mind. It's thus a theory of how the mind works(restricted to the domain of  
language).It is the best known theory of linguistic cognition that the  
ancient Indian study of language has offered. It is quite possible that  
the question as to how a linguistic expression is understood (as distinct  
from how it is structured or pronounced)was first raised in ancient Indian  
study of language. The sphota theory is evidence of some serious scholarly  
engagement with a fundamental cognitive linguistic issue.  
  
I have nothing to say about whether the theory is illuminating with regard  
to the problem it addresses itself to. The problem is a classical one, and  
if my understanding of contemporary cognitive linguistics is not entirely  
wrong, I do not think, despite by no means inconsiderable advances in the  
field, there exists a generally accepted, conclusive answer.  
  
(b)As I see it, our use of language, (both in terms of understanding and  
producing meaningful and appropriate linguistic expressions)be it Sanskrit  
or any other - sphota theory being language independent - can be affected  
in any way if we do not understand the way mind works with respect to  
these. After hundreds of years of engagement with this question, we do not  
have any clear idea of how the mind deals with the linguistic material it  
receives but our language use has not suffered on this account at all.  
  
I am only hoping that I have not misunderstood your question.  
  
With best regards,  
B.N.Patnaik  
  
  
  
  
\> Prof. Joshi, the tradition was known to Panini who has used it in the  
rule; avaN sphoTAyanasya. Here the rule applies to sound only where o  
changes to ava in the opinion of Sphotayana. Of course, he is not a  
regional Acarya like Sakalya whose phonetics is available even today in  
the same manner which was used by Panini. Rto Bharadvaajasya is to be  
evaluated aftesh. Oto Gaargyasya, perhaps, belongs to Rajasthan which  
was  
\> the phonetics of the saarthavaahas and a tribe sansii which is  
available  
\> in Rajasthan and elsewhere even today and which migrated from Peshawar,  
the birth-land of Panini.Unlike Kiparsky and traditional  
\> interpretations, these Acaryas had been the names related to the land,  
doctrines and sometimes puujaartha as our commentators say. puujaartha  
is  
\> generally superflous because all the Acaryas deserve puujaa. I talked to  
Prof. Cardona and he told me that he is concerned only with Panini and  
his  
\> tradition and not the regional linguistics.  
\> Deshpande agrees but it is less compared with regional languages. So  
\> Sphotayana is related to the tradition of phonetics (sphota) which deals  
only with the phonetics and not semantics which was introduced by other  
grammarians, philosophers of grammar and systems of Indian philosophy  
and  
\> poetics. Its tradition may be traced in Buddhism and Jainism and the  
appendix 7 is available in Abhyankar's Vakyapadiiya of course the  
original text with casual remarks. I will be obliged to get further  
remarks from the scholars on this important issue. But in my teaching  
the  
\> course, I had been taking this line of action with teachings of the  
appendix 7 above. Regards to all. sp narang  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
\> From: S P Narang \<[spna...@yahoo.com]()\>  
\> To: [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
\> Sent: Monday, May 18, 2009 9:59:13 AM  
\> Subject: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Re:  
From Dr. N.R.Joshi (USA)  
\>  
\>  
\> Prof. Joshi, Namaskar. I had been teaching the subject for a number of  
years. I understand that sphota is used to produce the sound in the form  
of Vaikhari i.e. the articulated sound ( 4th in number ) from the first  
three i.e. paraa, pashyantii etc. which are not articulated. the  
etymYology of the word is explained as to burst. In regional languages  
also e.g. in Panjabi, it is called phuTTanA i.e. to speak the words or  
uccaranA to express the words. Unfortunately, the course of action of  
expression of speech was taken to the semantics and it was used with  
expressing the meaning. That is why the scholars like Mammata in  
Kavyaprakaasa say it as GaDu = a useless object on the face which is  
just  
\> like a disease SphoTa = phoDaa = a blister on the face.He thinks that  
there is no need of sphoTa for the shabdashakti. which is useless for  
leading abhidhaa to lakshanaa and to vyanjanaa. A number of scholars and  
commentators think it useless. You may consult the  
\> Kaavyaprakaasakhandanam by Siddhicandra also in this context. You may  
see  
\> my paper:  
\> Exposition of Śabda-śaktis by Siddhicandra-gaņi  
\> In: Āsthā aur Cintana: Ācāryaratna Śrī Deśabhūşaņa Jī  
Mahārāja Abhinandana Grantha, Delhi , 1987, Jainasāhityalakşaņa,  
pp.  
\> 44-47  
\> which is reprinted in encyclopedia of Jainism by Narendra Singh. to me  
earlier scholars used it for the articulation of the sound but  
later  
\> it was related to the semantics and with divergent devices, its need was  
considered to be useless.  
\> Regards, SP Narang  
\>   
\>  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
\> From: "[gira...@juno.com]()" \<[gira...@juno.com]()\>  
\> To: [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
\> Sent: Monday, May 18, 2009 5:26:52 AM  
\> Subject: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्}  
From  
\> Dr. N.R.Joshi (USA)  
\>  
\>  
\> Dated May 17, 2009  
\>   
\>   
\> Sphota Doctrine in the ancient Indian Linguistics by N. R.Joshi  
\>   
\> Respected Scholars, Namaskar!  
\>   
\> Some time ago Prof. Korad Subrahmanyam (Universityof Hyderabad) posted  
here information about his book on “Theories of Language-Oriental and  
Occidental”. He mentioned that his work examined ancient grammar  
including connection of Vyaakarana with philosophy and sphota.I came  
across a similar book, “Indian Theories of Language “written by Rama  
Nair published from Hyderabad. Dr. S. D. Joshi had written the book on  
“The Sphotanirnaya of Kaunda Bhatta”. Many other authors like K.  
Kunjunni Raja, Bimal Krishna Matilal, Gaurinath Sastri, Purushottam  
Bilimoria, Pushpendra Kumar, Tandra Parnaik, and Guy Beck dealt with the  
subject of Indian Linguistic Theories. Some of them discuss sphota  
doctrine. As a matter of fact sphota is discussed right from Patanjali  
to  
\> Bhartrihari to modern scholars listed above. My question- What is  
exactly  
\> the use of sphota in Sanskrit linguistics? If we drop it totally, will  
there be a problem in understanding of Sanskrit  
\> sentences? The ancient aacharyas also differ on definitions of Jaati  
\> sphota and Vyakti sphota. In addition to that many sphotas are  
postulated  
\> like Vaakya, pada, and shabda sphota. Is there connection between the  
meaning of a Sanskrit word and its sphota? All the books listed above  
offer nice review of scholarly discussions of about 2000 years. However  
I  
\> did not see utility of sphota being discussed. I may be wrong in my  
understanding of sphota. I am also interested to know the direction in  
which Sanskrit linguistics is moving in future. I will appreciate help  
from scholars of this list. Thanks. N.R.Joshi.  
\>  
\> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
\> Criminal Lawyers - Click here.  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\> \>  
\>  
  
  
--  
Retired Professor of English and Linguistics  
Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur  
  
Current address:  
1 E, Debonair Regency  
7th Main, 3rd block, Jayalakshmipuram  
Mysore - 570012  
Landline: 0821-2411259  
Alternative Email: [bn.pa...@gmail.com]()  
  
Blog: <http://saralamahabharat.blogspot.com>  
<http://linktopatnaik.blogspot.com>  
Website: <http://bnpatnaik.wordpress.com>  
  
  
  

