+++
title = "008 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-03-23, 01:02:21 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/CAwmxtFpV14)]]



Namaste



On \< उस का जवाब अब तक वहाँ नहीँ मिला है।> and \< mars in cancer sign --> is responsible for the thelesemia>



1. Current Jyotish teams and syllabus have made a total disconnection with the ‘ Vednagataa’ of Samskrutham, the ‘ Ayurveda’ part of Health diagnostics and ‘ Parihara part of Veda –Mantras’.



2\. On the top of it, the current Jyotish teams have made a miss map
of ‘ Graha – Nakshatra – Kaarakatva’ of traditional texts .



 Traditional Jyotish and Ayurveda texts use ‘ Panchbhoota – Saptadhatu model of Shareera’ , to explain ‘ Vyaadhi – aadhi – roga’. Here Jaataka – analysis is personalized. A generalization like ‘ Kuja’ to ‘rakta’ is inappropriate. With this basic inappropriateness, if Kuja is to be mapped to ‘ Blood Types’ , are you going to postulate five different types of ‘Kuja’ in Shaastra texts ?



 Modern Medical science uses Chemistry model and lab test analysis to explain disease and ‘ pills for ills’ as cure.



3. Unless on restores the ‘ Teaching –learning –practicing –prescribing methods of current ‘Vedic Astrology’ to the ‘ Traditional norm of ‘ Vedanga Jyotisha’ one will not understand the teachings from the text.
When teachings in the original text is not understood properly, and inappropriate ‘ kaarakatva’ is mapped, then the outcome is ‘ irresponsible, unaccountable, disrespectful practice of tradition’.



4\. Suggestion for remedial measure is to do research in ‘ Vedanga Jyotisha’ with a clarity on:

- ‘ Jyotisha as Jyotir-Yoga for Vyadhi pareekshaa, a Shaastra for diagnostics using the panchabhoota –saptadhatu model –

- Ayurveda as Ayur-Yoga - Aaushadha Parihara Shaastra –

- Chiatta/ Vak Yoga as Swastha Vrutta / Daivee Mantra Parihara shaastra.



It is a deep rooted connection to be restored by addressing ‘ How personal life is influenced by the entities in Cosmos’ , the clarity on ‘Divinity of Kaala ( Time) and ‘ Significance of Jaataka for Swasthya –Saukhya yoga.



Till then, …\< उस का जवाब नहीँ … ।> ..



Regards

BVK Sastry



