+++
title = "009 SriKanth!"

+++
[[SriKanth!	2012-07-11, 06:25:37 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/mC_p4qfuA1Q)]]



vidvadbhya: saadaram pranamya,  
  
While we should accept and address the current way of caste system, it  
is not entirely to blame our Shastras or Hindu dharma per se. Consider  
this,  
  
1. Purusha Sukta with its universal view, when it comes to talk about  
society brings some analogies such as the scholars being the face of  
the society, workers being the force that moves the society etc. Even  
today we Engineers proudly say "Engineers run the world", likewise  
Purusha sukta saying Shudras forming the fundamental base of Society  
by which the society moves on. Scholars here know the meaning of the  
word Shudra which is not opposing what I am saying.  
  
2. Casteism is not unique to Hinduism. Wherever in the world human  
popuplation is there, groupism is unavoidable. Each group thinks they  
are better from others, its only group psychology. Islam,  
Christianity, Buddhism all have their own intrinsic variety of caste.  
Even after converting to Christian or Islam we can see people retain  
their caste (such as Christian Brahmin or Christian Nadar etc) - such  
is the power of group mentality.  
  
3. Untouchability may have been due to plague kind of diseases  
spreading in the past. Similarly feudal wars between Kings, resulted  
in communities becoming "upper caste" (winners) or "lower  
caste" (losers)... Some of the castes which are considered Shudra in  
one place are not so in other places of India. Caste is not eternally  
setup and up or down movement in Varna was very much there. Ambedkar  
has written a lot about this.  
  
4. I wish to bring, most of Vedic Rishis, great souls were not  
Brahmins. Manu himself is a Kshatriya (pl correct if I am wrong) and  
not a brahmin.  
  
5. Another accusation I hear is, Hindus destroyed Buddhism/Jainism  
from the land (Bharat) where they born. This is not true, Hinduism was  
never an organized entity and never tried to wipe out Buddhists. It  
was Islamic invasions that reduced Buddhists/Jains from this land.  
  
Pardon my ignorance if said anything wrong.  
  
dhanyavada:  
Srikanth  
  
On Jul 10, 10:57pm, श्रीनिवासः(Srinivasa Karri) \<[karr...@gmail.com]()\>  
wrote:  
\> Dear Scholors,  

