+++
title = "008 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2012-01-14, 11:33:40 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/KECU_vvxsfo)]]



Dear Bhagawan Singh and other Scholars,



There is a vast difference in the outlook of the foreigners who study Sanskrit and indology; and our own scholars. The Indian scholars, by and large, take to Study of Sanskrit and scriptures as a matter of duty and hence perfunctorily; and is of the opinion that the texts and commentaries should not be qustioned since that amounts to sin. so mostly they study with blind faith; ofter without caring to ponder over the nuances. Whereas the Westerners have no such inhibition and therefore study the subjects with a questioning attitude. Some scholars like Rt.Rev.Gaspare Garresio, who translated Ramayana into Italian, and Wilhelm Shlegel into Latin, Will Durant, Bertrand Russel, etc. are impressed and take them in the right sense. and others in the negative or neutral sense. But on the whole, their tremendous contribution cannot be ignored. But their critical approach is far superion to our blind approach, because it is ofter their criticisms that have roused interest in our scholars,whereas our approachmiserably fails to arouse the interest in our younger generations; and scuttlles any effort in researching into the innate meaning of our texts; and content withgobbling up silly commentaries blindly. And it is more pitiable that comments are often made without understanding their import by our scholars. I recall Rama's advice to Laksmana, when the latter seeks permission of the former, to combat Ravana: tasya ChidraNi margaswa swa ChidraNi ca lakShaya\| chakShuShaa dhanuShaa yatnaadrakShaatmaanaM samaahitaaH\| (6-59-50; Vamiki RamaayaNa)\|\| So, we have to stem the rot, the first thing is cover the lapses in ourselves than finding fault with others.



Yours humbly,

s.r.krishna murthy  
  



