+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-10-27, 19:11:44 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/wL-_CUCX3hc)]]



Lecture series: "Global Concepts? Keywords and Their Histories in Asia and Europe", Cluster of Excellence "Asia and Europe in a Global Context"  
Heidelberg,Oct 28,Nov. 11and 25, 2010, Jan. 13, 20, 27, 2011  
NB FIRST EVENT IS THIS WEEK.  
\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*  
  
"Global Concepts? Keywords and Their Histories in Asia and Europe"  
  
Location:Germany  
Lecture Date:2010-10-28(tomorrow!)  
Date Submitted: 2010-10-22  
Announcement ID: 179954  
  
Organizers: Prof. Dr. Monica Juneja, Prof. Dr. Joachim Kurtz, Dr. Susan Richter  
  
Studies of transcultural processes involve writing aboutdifferent culturesin a single language. Yet if meaning comes to be configured through language, the transcultural exercise does not precede conceptual categories but is dependent on them. This lecture series interrogates the validity of the analytical concepts that make up our academic vocabulary and function as lenses through which sources in different languages are read, interpreted and recast within monolingual narratives. Can the dynamics of societies across the globe be grasped using key concepts that have crystallized on the basis of the West European trajectory? And do these concepts inevitably bear the imprint of their parochial origins or can they be reformulated so as to reflect the plurality of historical experiences which transcultural studies attempt to capture?  
  
The Series Global Concepts? Keywords and Their Histories in Asia and Europe will explore questions such as these from a variety of disciplinary and regional perspectives. While existing semantic histories of the key concepts structuring academic discourse are devoted to developments within individual languages, the series aims to shed light on processes of translation, adaptation and domestication that transgress linguistic and cultural boundaries.  
  
The seven sessions are designed as a series of panels, each comprising of three experts with different areas of specialization. Each panel will trace the semantic histories of a pair of keywords in more than one cultural context, and discuss issues such as semantic shifts and their consequences, the fixity of distinctions between the emic and etic, and ways in which these processes themselves have been shaped through transcultural interactions. By focusing on the transcultural dynamics of concept formation, the series hopes to contribute to a more credibly global lexicon able to respond to the challenge of cultural plurality.  
  
Programme (all panels will take place from 18-20 hrs in Room 212,Karl JaspersCentre, admission free)  
  
28.10.10Culture/Civilization  
  
Speakers: On theDialecticsof Culture andCivilization, Paul Geyer,University of Bonn  
Civilization, Custom, Culture: Three Concepts of Freedom in Colonial Bengal, Andrew Sartori,New York University  
Discussant: Joseph Maran,University of Heidelberg  
  
11.11.10History/Politics  
  
Speakers: Is There a Need for aHistoriographyof the Political? Considerations on an Ancient Subject, Luise Schorn-Schtte,University of Frankfurt  
Conceptualizationsof History and the Past in 19th Century Japanese Thought, KoichiroMatsuda,Rikkyo University,Tokyo  
Discussant: Hans Harder, University of Heidelberg  
  
25.11.10Canons/Classics  
  
Speakers: Classics and Canons: Modern Reconfigurations, Sally Humphreys,Central European University, Budapest  
Canonization and Buddhism: What Can We Learn from the Production of Canonical Collections inTibet? Birgit Kellner,University of Heidelberg  
Discussant: Rudolf G. Wagner, University of Heidelberg  
  
9.12.10 Public/Private  
  
Speakers: Public/Gong ? and Private/Si ? in China, Dorothy Ko, Barnard College, New York  
The Suggestive Power of the Public-Private Dichotomy in Modern Western European Thinking, Ulrike Weckel,Ruhr University of Bochum  
Discussant: Monica Juneja, University of Heidelberg  
  
13.01.11Art/Science  
  
Speakers: 'Art': A Modern European Invention, Raphael Rosenberg,University of Vienna  
"Exact and Positive: Conceptions of the Past of the Sciences inIndia", Dhruv Raina,Heinrich Zimmervisiting Professor, University of Heidelberg  
Discussant: Melanie Trede, University of Heidelberg  
  
20.01.11Law/Liberty  
  
Speakers: Libert/Liberty/Freiheit: A Key Concept for (Early) ModernWestern Culturesbetween Universality and Cultural Specificity, Hans-Jrgen Lsebrink, University of Saarbrcken  
  
  
Moral and Political Freedom: Inter-/Transcultural Explorations, Monika Kirloskar- Steinbach, University of Constance  
Discussant: Harald Fuess, University of Heidelberg  
  
27.01.11Rationality/Emotion  
  
Speakers: Emotions and Sensivities in Chinese History, Angelika Messner,University of Kiel  
"The Violent Ideal. Representations of Rationality/Emotion in the Modern German Imaginary", Martina Kessel, University of Bielefeld Discussant: Christoph Wulf, Freie Universitt Berlin  
  
Dr. Susan Richter  
Cluster of Excellence "Asia and Europe in a Global Context"  
Karl Jaspers Centre, Vosstrase 2, Building 4400, 69115 Heidelberg,  
Email:[ric...@asia-europe.uni-heidelberg.de]()  
  
Visit the website at[http://www.asia-europe.uni-heidelberg.de](http://www.asia-europe.uni-heidelberg.de/)  

