+++
title = "004 vaidikagramanirman"

+++
[[vaidikagramanirman	2009-04-15, 10:12:25 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/ragA3a4sGcg)]]



namaste,  
  
"naLinI dala jala mati taraLam... jIvita matishayacapalm" is part of  
shaMkarA's quote - looking at this with dichotomous glasses of science  
and spirituality and stuff people have gone on and on with  
commentaries on commentaries on "jIvita matishayacapalm"  
  
It was a great shock to me reading in Nature (I think) - a reknowned  
science magazine. That a European had studied the lotus leaf - its  
structure and also came up with a patent for application of the  
principle to water resisting cloth and clothing! He (they) didnt care  
for the spiritual stuff and stopping as we have did not question why  
looking at the droplets on lotus leaf. Perhaps you are I stopped to  
wonder why and that is dead end as far as this lotus leaf business  
goes.  
  
Wings in Sanskrit Department - some that I can think of looking at  
todays ad in paper notifying admission for MSc.  
  
Physical sciences  
Physics - particle physics - applied electronics materials science -  
astronomy  
  
Chemical sciences  
Chemistry - Polymer organic industrial  
  
Earth sciences  
Geology - aplied geology - earthquakes - I remember clod formations  
have been mentioned when there would be earthquake - and felt sorry on  
reading again in a science magazine that a chinese person published  
NASA data correlating peculiar formation of clouds. It is interesting  
for me to read the bhagavatham and fear of takshaka flying snake by  
parikshit ? could this be reference to a peculair coiled cloud  
formation signifying end for him and his country - earth. The flying  
snake is incidentally also a God / Demon in Aztec and Mayan  
civilizations.  
  
Enivironmental science sciences - global warming is a orld wide worry  
- is there reference to this in our purANa and veda? It is hard for me  
to be satisfied scientifically that on a billion year old planet - man  
rose only some ten thousands years ago - What was happening before  
that - This is something science taught I question (in my mind) but am  
relatively happy that our yuga concept could be the correct  
interpretation.  
  
Geoinformatics.  
  
Computer science - people have laughed and told me this is  
"information technology" - oh yeah - type in "information" and look  
that up in Word thesaurus - it comes ridiculously as " in formation"  
"rank" and non sense - There is no colloquial word that match "mahiti"  
- colloquial marathi for what information is.  
  
Mthematics  
Statistics  
Applied Economics  
Rural Development  
Agriculture  
Tourism  
Museology  
Microbiology  
otany  
Zoology  
Agrochemicals and pest management  
  
and so on  



\> \> - Show quoted text -- Hide quoted text -  



