+++
title = "023 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-01-17, 09:59:50 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/c9qAloF2mvc)]]



Namaste



Two clarifications reuested.



***1. Prof. A.A.:*** ‘"lakṣya-lakṣaṇe vyākaraṇam" - Is there only one way to resolve this compound ? 

 Can it also be resolved to give the meaning
‘ Vyakarana is as much its own lakshya and it is also its own lakshanam’.

 For the Sutras inherently need to obey what the sutras provide as a rule.

 For example : stoschunaschuH has to follow the schutva, from its own directive; it can not invoke the authority from an outside discipline. 

 i.e. Vyakarana is a shaastra which is its own lakshya and also its own lakshana. ( **sva-lakshanam**).



***2. Prof. Paturi:*** On Hari’s quoted sloka: IF the anvaya from this reference be : यॆ मलाः - कायवाग्बुद्धिविषया समवस्थिताः - तॆषां विशुद्धयः चिकित्सालक्षणाध्यात्म- शास्त्रैः 



 a) Can a table like the one below be explained
for each aspect that emerges out of this from the context of ‘ Hari’s Vakyapadeeya dealing with Grammar of Samskrutham’? 



|                                 |                                                                             |                                                                    |                                                                                                                                                  | |---------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------| |                                | **Kaaya –vishaya malAH**                                                    | **Vak- Vishaya malAH **                                          | **Buddhi vishaya malAH**                                                                                                                         | | **-Chikitsaa Shaastra**         | Kaaya –vishaya-Chikitsaa Shaastra                                           | Vak- Vishaya -Chikitsaa Shaastra                                  | Buddhi vishaya-Chikitsaa Shaastra                                                                                                                | | **- Lakshana Shaastra**        | Kaaya –vishaya- Lakshana Shaastra                                           | Vak- Vishaya - Lakshana Shaastra                                 | Buddhi vishaya- Lakshana Shaastra                                                                                                                | | **-Adhyatma Shaastra**          | Kaaya –vishaya-Adhyatma Shaastra                                            | Vak- Vishaya -Adhyatma Shaastra                                  | Buddhi vishaya -Adhyatma Shaastra                                                                                                                | | **TRADITIONAL SHAASTRA VIDYAA** | = Shareera –Shaareeraka Shaastra ( = Vedanta Darshana; Upaveda as Ayurveda) | = Vedanga Vak-Yoga Vyakarana Shaastra (= Shabda Brahma Darshana) | = Buddhi-Yoga Shaastra ( Gita 10-10: tesam satata-yuktanam bhajatam priti-purvakam **dadami buddhi**-**yogam** tam yena mam upayanti **te** ) |



 







 







 b) Am I ‘ thinking out of traditional
explanation’ in seeing these as extension of thoughts from Hari , going beyond ‘Vyakrarana -Vedanta darshana (Bhashaa / Philosophy of

 Langauge) 

 to Ayurveda and Yoga ? following the
patanjali -prayers chanted in yoga resonating 17th chapter of Gita which speaks of ‘Shareera – Vak- Manas’ model of Tapas for 

 purification and freedom from three Gunas ? Is there any expanded explanation in ‘Hari’s text or tradition to suggest or reject this approach ?



P.S. This to me is the explanation of ‘Vak-Yoga’ the Sacred Spiritual Linguistics , the name of ‘Samskrutham’, referred to by Patanjali drawing the authority from Rigveda, as mentioned in Mahabhashya. A tradition which has been damaged by projecting it as ‘Social, historical linguistics, of a land and community, fit only for prayers and conversation’.

 This looks to be foundation for constructing ‘ Samskrutham as ‘ Mantra –Brahmana Bhashaa’ in yoga works which is used for ‘यॆ मलाः
- कायवाग्बुद्धिविषया समवस्थिताः - तॆषां चिकित्सालक्षणाध्यात्म- शास्त्रैः विशुद्धयः’ to build the entire edifice of ‘ parihara’- remedial measures. 

 Appreciate your helpful inputs to understand Hari.

Regards

BVK Sastry



**From:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() \[mailto:[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\] **On Behalf Of** Nagaraj Paturi  
**Sent:** Wednesday, 17 January, 2018 12:11 AM  
**To:** Bharatiya Vidvat parishad  
**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} query lakshana grantha and lakshya grantha



Hari uses the word lakshaNa s'aastra as a synonym for vyaakaraNa s'aastra:



कायवाग्बुद्धिविषया यॆ मलाः समवस्थिताः /

चिकित्सालक्षणाध्यात्म- शास्त्रैस् तॆषां विशुद्धयः// वाक्य\_१।१७४ //

On Tue, Jan 16, 2018 at 11:30 PM, Ashok Aklujkar \<[ashok.a...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:

The main point made so far (which I take to be: ‘lakṣya is more like ’subject matter, domain,’ not necessarily a particular text being explained/supported, an object text’) is in keeping with the discussion under the Vārttika "lakṣya-lakṣaṇe vyākaraṇam" found in the introductory part of Patañjali’s Vyākaraṇa-mahābhāṣya.  
  
The juxtaposing of lakṣya and lakṣaṇa found in the specified context may have had its origin in the Vārttika tradition, just as the later (roughly 15th-18th century A.D.) juxtaposing of lakṣyaika-cakṣuṣka and
lakṣaṇaika-cakṣuṣka found in the tradition of the Pāṇinīyas.  
  
a.a.

  
--  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  

To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().

  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

  
  



--

Nagaraj Paturi



Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA.





BoS, MIT School of Vedic Sciences, Pune, Maharashtra



BoS, Chinmaya Vishwavidyapeeth, Veliyanad, Kerala



Former Senior Professor of Cultural Studies



FLAME School of Communication and FLAME School ofLiberal Education,



(Pune, Maharashtra,INDIA)







--  

You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  

To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().



