+++
title = "004 R. Narayana iyengar"

+++
[[R. Narayana iyengar	2013-02-05, 19:08:25 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/s6TLpoP2opY)]]



नमो नारायणाय  

  

The Brahmaanda puraana quotation you have given refers to Svaayambhuva manvantara. Am I correct? Hence it may not be very relevant for our present discussion. "Saptarshi" is a very interesting topic. I consider the correlation between the names of the stars of U.Major and the 7 Brahmar.shis to be as per Matsya PuraNa. The Pravaramanjari names of 7 rishis with Agastya being the eighth as the originators of BrahmaNas is of course slightly different but the celestial connection of Agastya with star Canopus and the southern direction is very clear. I will not go into the connection of how Agni was invoked and how the 7 rishis (perhaps the RV maNDala dras.t.aarah) went to heaven, to a loka nearby which aahitaagnis in the DarshapaurNamaasa yaaga pray for a place.

  

Now coming to the primary question of Vaasis.t.aah, they are known to the Yajurvedic texts very well, because vaasis.t.ha saatyahavya is mentioned specifically. Please see:

  

Tai Sam 3.5.2.1

tasmaad vaasishtho brahmaa kaaryah

6.6.2.2

vaasishto ha saatyahavyo devabhaagam papraccha

  

Tai Ara 1-12-5

Ko antariks.e s'abdam karotiiti

vaasis.t.ho rauhin.o miimaamsaam cakre

  

In addition Vasis.t.ha gotra is attested by Gotrapravaramanjari of Purushottama. Hence my primary quest for "vaasis.t.haah" is an earthly group of people.

  

Now about Maghaa naks.atram. Reference to Varahamirhira and such other authors for solving more ancient statements is beset with tremendous difficulties. As you would have observed I am conditioned to study ancient literature with a chronological (or historical) and geographical perspective. The Paraashara whom I quoted was at least 1000 years before VM. His statements at best we can try to discuss with the help of Vedic texts. He himself says that Maghaa are six in number.Incidentally VM lists the number of stars in each of the 27 nakshatra in Chapter 68 of his BS, where he gives the number as five. Atharvavedapari (12.1) also knows Maghaa to have six stars.These counts of identifying nakshatras should have belonged to an age old tradition starting before even the Vedanga Jyotisha of Lagadha who takes the ecliptic to be equally divided into 27 nakshatra stretches. Hence one has to carefully separate out mathematical divisions which may be in singular from visible nakshatras in plural. Even for esoteric purposes nakshatra might have been considered a single personified entity in some places as in:

Tai sam 4.4.10.1 maghaa nakshatram pitaro devataa

  

But clearly in plural in majority of the places:

TB 1.5.1.2 pitr.n.aam maghaah

TB [3.1.1.6](http://3.1.1.6): upahUtaa pitaro ye maghaasu

3.1.1.7 maghaasu yajneshu

TB 3.1.4.8 maghaabhayah purodaasham...maghaabhayah svaaha...arundhatiibhyah svaaheti.

  

Now the quotation from Paraashara on Maghaa:

qÉbÉÉlÉÉÇ SÍ¤ÉhÉiÉÉUÉåmÉiÉÉmÉå uÉÉÍxÉ¸ÉÈ mÉÏŽliÉå \| iÉSÒ¨ÉUåhÉ Ì²iÉÏrÉÉ \| iÉxrÉÉqÉÑmÉiÉmiÉÉrÉÉÇ AÉæwÉkÉrÉxiÉÉqÉëmÉhÉïMüÉ¶É \| iÉ×iÉÏrÉÉrÉÉÇ uÉ×kSèrÉÑmÉeÉÏÌuÉlÉÈ \| cÉiÉÑjrÉÉïÇ MüÉå¸ÉaÉÉUÉÍhÉ ÌmÉiÉ×kÉÉlrÉÇ cÉ \| mÉgcÉqrÉÉÇ qÉÉÌWûwqÉiÉÏÌlÉuÉÉÍxÉlÉÈ \| wÉwœÉÇ lÉÉaÉÉ lÉÉaÉÉÍ´ÉiÉÉ¶É \| rÉÑaÉmÉSÒmÉxÉ×¹ÉxÉÑ qÉssÉiÉÉqÉëmÉhÉïMüÉÍkÉmÉaÉhÉoÉÉ½ÉÌlÉ \| rÉŠæMæüMüzÉ E£üqÉç \|\|

the six stars of *maghā* can be identified as stars α, η, γ, ζ, μ, ε Leonis. The representative southern star of *maghā* would be Regulus. It is very close to the ecliptic and hence susceptible for occultation.

Sorry the post became a little bit long, so I stop.



अलमति विस्तरेण !

भवदीयः

ना



