+++
title = "006 R. Narayana iyengar"

+++
[[R. Narayana iyengar	2013-02-06, 16:53:34 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/s6TLpoP2opY)]]



I thank Dr.Ramanujan for making one correction and also confirming the Vedic Bahuvacana for MaghA. Such clarifications are important from historical perspective.

  

I am sorry for the mess up in the font. I am now attaching a pdf file.

  

Dear Narayanan

Your quotes from PaNini are interesting. He usesपुनर्वस्वो: that is dvivacanam. Actually Paraas'ara also takes this to have two stars. But I have a feeling some group of authors considered nakshatras to be made of one or more stars, that is तारकाः So eventhough N's were 27 the number of stars would be more. actually 27x3=81. I have attached the AVP count in the nakshatrakalpa. It declares संख्यापरिमितं ब्रह्म . Here the word brahma would only mean the zodiac that is from krttikA to krttikA.  
Taking S'atabhis.ak to have 100 stars etc should have been too late. Varaaha in many places quotes his predecessors but this is not consistent. Hence to take him as a standard for info on more ancient (Vedic) practices is of doubtful validity. Hence in any discussion on ancient texts I do not like to bring in the concept of 'Raas'i' such as 'Simha' you have raised.

  

Grammatical use of the word may not indicate the exact number of constituent stars recognized in ancient times. If you have any information on the nakshatra Jyes.t.hA from grammar or other ancient (i.e. pre-Varaaha Mihira) texts please let me know.

best regards

  

RNI



