+++
title = "021 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-01-29, 23:27:02 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/E1RlCMc-yNE)]]



Namaste



1. Here is a typical case to explore and contemplate : Unless one keeps track of the issue very closely the significance of these discussions and references just get lost as a 

 ‘ kaala-kshepa of some vaidikas on an obscure way of pronunciation’ where anyone can be as right as any other person or equally wrong !



2. The post exchange has brought out the dynamics of Script –Sound correlation for Veda Mantra ( here Ganapati mantra and Pranava). The things to take note being:



(a) How Devanagari Veda Scripting conventions have distracted the ‘ True (?! Mantra ) pronunciation of Vedic text.

(b) How to Study –Teach- Validate Samskrutha Ucchaaranam using Vedas scripted in NON-DEVANAGARI Scripts and Technology usage ! Especially in the mass published books of Veda from social institutions like Ramakrishna mission etc;.



3. The attachment ( Gopal Reddy) explained clearly the challenges of ‘ Anusvaara pronunciation’ and about the ‘ Shaastreeyataa’ part.



 Sri Sivasenani Nori has drawn attention to the ‘ differences in tradition of ‘ Maadhyandina and Taittiriya’ and also the ‘ Telugu’ scripting convention where one 

 ‘Consonant’ is introduced.



 I am drawing attention to the UNICODE Page charts (<http://www.unicode.org/charts/PDF/U1CD0.pdf> ) and the Page
maintained at 

 <http://www.unicode.org/~emuller/southasia/vedic/> which presents Techno-Linguists version of Vedic Anusvaara, the difference between the Indian Government

 proposal, the Technolinguists versions of scripting based on ‘ manuscript evidence’. ( I am attaching the file; Don’t know whether it will go through).



4. **What seems to be Net outcome**: Chaos and More Chaos with
Total ‘mata bheda’ on what symbol represents what sound and the ‘ shuddha – patha’.

 So each one seems to be ending with the stand –‘ asmdaachaarya padaaih yathaa kathitam….’ A recourse to NON-VERIFIABLE Proof

 ( Do we want to call it the alukika / paara- laukika
pramaana ? because the people of yore are no more in this loka and we can not access ‘ para-loka – praamaanya’ ?



 **What seems to be the likely Social, Religion Practice impact of this ?** Veda –Patha Bheda OR ashuddha –pathas proliferation which kills the ‘ Integrity of

 Shadanga Saanga Veda’. ( If at all any residual life is left in Samskruth as the Classical language ? \[ classical = dead, gone out of speaking, usage\]. 



 How then would justify the claim of ‘ unchanged Veda paramparaa by script or sound, for the Mantra –efficacy claims’ ? And future trends of this ??

 What would Ganesha accept as the ‘ Beeja mantra’ according to Ganapathyatharva sheersha upanishat ? 



Regards

BVK Sastry



**From:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() \[mailto:[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\] **On Behalf Of** Sivasenani Nori  
**Sent:** Monday, 29 January, 2018 2:13 PM  
**To:** भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्  
**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Gayatri and Vyahritis



Please find attached the paper by Sri M. Gopal Reddy.



Regarding the pronunciation, I pronounce it the way I learnt from my guru - i.e. the typical way of the Taittiriyas. I am not trained in the Madhyandina tradition.



Regards

N. Siva Senani





On 29 January 2018 at 13:16, venkat veeraraghavan \<[vvenk...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:



