+++
title = "000 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2017-12-24, 02:18:32 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/cQxvFMMV2PY)]]



Namaste



I place below an extract from a resource which highlights the challenge of ‘right spelling’ . (<http://al-bab.com/arabic-language/arabic-language-5>) .



***The question*** : Is there something to ponder here for Devanagari scripting of Samskruth and ‘ preservation of ‘ True (Vedic) Phonetic Heritage’ , a desire to be free from **‘ Dushtah Shabdah’**
warning from Patanjali ?



The issue relates to deliberation in Technology under the line items of ‘Romanization- Transliteration’.



The context of illustration below is from Arabic language. The word presented here is an arabic word, the name of a powerful leader, for which 32 variant spellings are given.



Keyboard short cuts, IME’s, UNICODE .. are still a far cry in technology to solve the most practical problems and challenges of human language and society practice even in articulating a given name of a person properly ; what to speak of the ‘Technical sophistry of Samskrutham and special terms in Chandas ’ !



Yet, we keep seeing bold statements on ‘ Samskruth Document Interpretation, Term meanings twists and secondary challenges of research on ‘ How they did a specialized samskar like ‘upanayanam’ for Women, on a what if option using the ‘ kaamachaara’ logic ! How sure are the text defenders/ offenders on the ‘ ground reality and authenticity of a given ( digital or printed ) text, beyond a faith assertion ? 



Please continue to read the issue: ***How do you spell - ***Variations in the Spelling of Mohammed Qadhafi***? How do you pronounce each variation??***

******

**Here Are Some Variations:**

1) Muammar Qaddafi

2) Mo'ammar Gadhafi

3) Muammar Kaddafi

4) Muammar Qadhafi

5) Moammar El Kadhafi

6) Muammar Gadafi

7) Mu'ammar al-Qadafi

8) Moamer El Kazzafi

9) Moamar al-Gaddafi

10) Mu'ammar Al Qathafi

11) Muammar Al Qathafi

12) Mo'ammar el-Gadhafi

13) Moamar El Kadhafi

14) Muammar al-Qadhafi

15) Mu'ammar al-Qadhdhafi

16) Mu'ammar Qadafi

17) Moamar Gaddafi

18) Mu'ammar Qadhdhafi

19) Muammar Khaddafi

20) Muammar al-Khaddafi

21) Mu'amar al-Kadafi

22) Muammar Ghaddafy

23) Muammar Ghadafi

24) Muammar Ghaddafi

25) Muamar Kaddafi

26) Muammar Quathafi

27) Mohammer Q'udafi

28) Muammar Gheddafi

29) Muamar Al-Kaddafi

30) Moammar Khadafy

31) Moammar Qudhafi

32) Mu'ammar al-Qaddafi

**The spelling "Mu\`ammar al-Qadhafi" is preferred, because it is considered to be the best transliteration from the Arabic of the Libyan Leader's first and last names.**







***Arabic language*****

**Arabic and the Roman alphabet**

**The writing of Arabic words in English texts presents a number of difficulties, even for those who are familiar with both languages.**

In 1926, when T E Lawrence ("Lawrence of Arabia") sent his 130,000-word manuscript of [Revolt in the Desert](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64683.Revolt_in_the_Desert) to be typeset, a sharp-eyed proof-reader spotted that it was "full of inconsistencies in the spelling of proper names".

Among other things, the proof-reader noted that "Jeddah" alternated with "Jidda" throughout the book, while a man whose name began as Sherif Abd el Mayin later became el Main, el Mayein, el Muein, el Mayin and le Muyein.

Lawrence refused to change the spellings.

**"Arabic names," he replied, "won't go into English, exactly, for their consonants are not the same as ours, and their vowels, like ours, vary from district to district."**

Such inconsistencies may not matter much in a literary work but in many other situations they do matter. **Alternative spellings can make one person appear to be several different people – a problem which, among other things, has hampered efforts to track down al-Qaeda supporters.**

The late Libyan leader's name was especially problematic, and newspapers never agreed on how to spell it. Some started it with the letter G, others with the letter Q. According to one website, there were [32 possible spellings](http://web.archive.org/web/20090227074704/http:/www.geocities.com/Athens/8744/spelling.htm).

**There is no ideal, all-purpose solution, but there are several ways of approaching the problem ...**

## Phonetic spelling

**One approach is to take Arabic words as they are pronounced and write down approximately similar sounds in the Roman alphabet. This is what early European travellers to the Middle East usually did, and the results were often bizarre or, in some cases, almost unrecognisable**.

**Inexact spellings such as "Mecca" and "Koran" entered the English language a long time ago and have become so entrenched that they are now difficult to eradicate. In old books the Prophet's name is frequently spelled as "Mahomet" and this is still used to sometimes today. There is no logical reason for it because Muhammad is one Arabic name that can easily be rendered in a way that is both phonetically accurate and faithful to its written form.**

The Roman alphabet, of course, is used by a number of European languages, so phonetic representations of Arabic words vary according to the mother tongue of the writer. **Romanised spellings adopted by Arabs themselves often reflect previous colonial influences: **an Arab in a country with strong English influence might spell his surname as "Shaheen", while a cousin in a French-influenced country would spell it as "Chahine". In both cases, the original Arabic name is the same.

**A further consideration is that there are also significant regional variations in pronunciation by Arabs.** So a single Arabic word spoken by a Moroccan, an Egyptian and a Saudi could easily appear as three different words if written phonetically in the Roman alphabet.

**The spellings of Arabic words found in the western mass media are often at least partly phonetic but rarely do justice to the original.**

In some circumstances, more precise phonetic spelling is needed – in phrase books for tourists, for instance, or in pronunciation guides for broadcasters. The following examples come from a guide issued by Associated Press to help American radio stations with their pronunciation:

mah-MOOD' ah-BAHS' (Mahmoud Abbas)

mah-MOOD' ab-DEHL'-BA'-set (Mahmoud Abdel-Baset)

shayk OH'-mahr AHB'-dehl RAHK'-mahn (Sheik Omar Abdel-Rahman)

**This is not only thoroughly unscientific but highly inaccurate. The guide happily inserts various sounds that don't exist in the original Arabic (a K in "Rahman", for example) and ignores several others that do exist. It also offers two different pronunciations of "Abdel-", for no logical reason.**

**Truly phonetic spelling follows the [International Phonetic Alphabet](http://www.internationalphoneticalphabet.org/ipa-sounds/ipa-chart-with-sounds/) which is used academically by linguists. Its disadvantage in general use is that it requires characters outside the normal alphabet and is therefore more or less incomprehensible to non-specialists.**

## Transcription (Romanisation)

A different approach is to start with Arabic words in their written form and transcribe (or "Romanise") them by replacing individual Arabic letters with corresponding letters from the Roman alphabet. This sounds simple but is actually very difficult. For example:

· **Only eight Arabic letters have a clear equivalent in the Roman alphabet: B, F, K, L, M, N, R, and Z.**

· Arabic has two distinct consonants that approximate to the sound of S. The same applies to D, H and T.

· There are two glottal sounds that do not obviously correspond to any Roman letter.

The ideal solution would be to have a standard, internationally agreed, system. Several have been proposed but unfortunately none has been universally accepted.

Probably the earliest attempt at standardisation was Deutsche Morgenländische Gesellschaft proposal, adopted by the International Convention of Orientalist Scholars in 1936. It is the system used in the [Hans Wehr Arabic dictionary](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0879500034/yemengateway). Another standard was agreed in 1971 at a conference of Arab experts in Beirut and - theoretically, at least, accepted by the countries of the Arab League. It has met some resistance, particularly in those Arab countries where French predominates over English. Other transcription/Romanisation systems include





Regards



BVK Sastry



