+++
title = "002 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2017-12-25, 23:59:27 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/cQxvFMMV2PY)]]



Namaste



1. On \< Should I feel free to respond \> : Please feel free to share the thoughts. 

 I seem to be getting a feeling that I might have asked a ‘stupid question, too elementary for scholars, even to consider for a response. 



2. On \< English language does not give any rules for writing down spoken words \> : Not really. This is the crux of the issue called ‘ Romanization – Transliteration’ of ‘Scriptures’. I am sharing some of my views, and concerns, fear on future of Samskruth, which every one may not like or perceive or appreciate.



 As for \<Spelling Convention>, this is a dynamically changing issue in English, the footprints o spelling in motion (!) is seen in annual lexicon / dictionary / Thesaurus publications. New media and Digital media make significant contribution to this dynamics. So who is \< Shishta> of \< English>, whose spelling can be taken as Pramanam = \< authority> ? \<Trustworthy> ? 



 It is not so easy to dismiss off the seriousness of the issue. There are very deep and dangerous issues that have been pushed below the carpet, may be for maintaining a ‘politically right position’, even when it means allowing for an irreversible damage to the National Language Education and distortion of Cultural Spiritual inheritance continuity of Bharath that has become India.



 The statement made by you demands more careful analysis. A
rephrasing your observation as below may help to invite better appreciation and response from Scholars:

 **How would Devanagari Brahmi language provide rules to write English spoken words ? **

** What would be the logic and pedagogy of The SPELLING MODE scripting of VOICE ?**

** Why Anglican script adaptation to promote Samskruth’ ? What are the consequences for India ? Samskruth? Hindu Mandirs ? Vedic Research ? Hinduism ? **

****

** Expanding on this : **

****

2.1) How would Devanagari script designer ( = Lipi Shaastra –Kaara) , going by a standard of ‘True Scripting of Voice (= Ukta lekhana / Satya lipi / Yathartha lekhaH) for the spoken word, would proceed
to analyze the alien issue of ‘Spelling mode scripting’ ?



It does not matter English or any other language! 



** *unless the ***



‘Primary Alphabets (= Character set / Varna-maalaa) inherently carries the feature /property of ‘Scripted differently – Read Differently’?



This feature is uniquely seen in *Greek and Latin*, and many other world languages !



Any language convention which uses ‘ Spelling approach’ and Lower case/ Upper case’ scripting convention ( without a phonemic weightage and
meant only for a layout convention to identify a new line beginning/ special words!) will find it difficult to meet the True voice scripting standard .



The first alphabet ‘ Alpha – Aleph’ does not map to the sound of ‘a’
for apple’ / ‘a’ for ‘aham’.



There are enough languages inside India and Outside, where the ‘Scripted Text ( =**Script**ed- litera**ture** = SCRIPTURE ) is integrally carrying this feature. 



2.2) Granting for argument sake, that a system like IPA provides / provided a PHONETIC script convention with diacritic markers over roman/ Latin / English alphabets,



 2.2.1) Why have scholars of Samskruth, who have listened to the ‘reading of the text’ in the past two centuries, shying away to
point out the ‘ loss of Samskruth voice quality ’ and not gone for a course correction on the ‘Non-Devanagari scripting in English itself, as a new convention?



 Probably such an effort might have facilitated the
‘shuddha - uccharana’ / improved articulation of Samskruth words in roman alphabet script , by use of remaining Latin diacritics like
\< Grave, tilde, dieresis, ring, cedilla etc; > or other available symbols in the IPA Chart itself ? Everyone is aware of the argument that no scripting provides a total true recovery of spoken word.



What I have seen in the last forty years, is only complaints that it is difficult to read a IPA diacritic marked English document.

What I have seen in the last forty years, is continued academic insistence on use of diacritic markers for Samskruth documents (West, Orient and India).

What I have seen in the last forty years, is Techno-linguists
forcibly pushing other conventions like Harvard Kyoto etc; to find alternate ways of writing Samskruth in using Latin alphabets and **avoiding** the ‘Swara’ part ! 



2.2.2) The net result is proliferation of ‘ **Anglican script adaptation to promote Samskruth’** ! The alien script adaptation to write Brahmi (Samskruth) language continues with all vigor and rigor at ones command, nay the support coming out of Indian resources. 

The outcome of this is the greatest danger of ‘erosion and loss of
Sa-Swara Vedas’ as ‘research-reference material, in the form of anglicized texts, denuded from swaras and true phonetics ’ . What would remain of ‘Veda’ when the ‘Swara’ is totally and systematically eliminated and distorted in teaching, research and studies ? This is
a direct off shoot of and docile tolerance of Scholars on systematic destruction of ‘ Veda –Paramparaa’, by removing the ‘ Mantra element’ of the text and ‘inaction on the part of Veda- loving / practicing community who seem to be happy to flourish on communities ignorance surging from misinformed briefings of colonial period, unsubstantiated hyped claims about efficacy of ‘Vedas in Samskruth’ .



The emotional attachment (raaga) to Vedas –Samskruth as pride of Samskruthi, anchoring it to ‘ in fructuous, inaccurate, models of practical deployment of Veda’ as a ‘culture –religion compliance’ is also an issue that needs attention here.



**The Anglican scripted Vedic Text is a disaster as for the Manta-Swara issue is concerned**. Let us contemplate why only Devanagari scripted text / Brahmi phonetic alphabet / Other Brahmi derivative languages
like Prakruths/ Brahmi origin Scripts with True voice mode - Nandi Nagari, Malayalam, Tulu, Kannaada, Dramidam, Grantham…. ) were followed by Gurukuls for Veda- akshara mudrana? 

**Please see caution given in Paniniya Shikshaa, Yaska and Patanjali**
: Mantro Heenah, SVARATO VARNATO VAA, Mithya-prayuktah, na tam artham aaha’. When the elements of text ( and voice) used for ‘studies and research in Vedas’ become ‘defective, distorted and devoid of SWARA , suffer from VARNA DOSHA’, how can they yield the ‘ Right Meaning’ ? On the top of it, when the ‘ Shadanga- Vedanga adhyayana paddahti’ = Traditional Vedic pedagogy of study is constricted to the limited application of Panini Vyakarana, that too partially? for Veda- Adhyayana ? 



2.2.3 ) The secondary outcome of this being, **Samskruth scholarship promotion anchored to reading Samskruth in anglicized script !** This is pushing reluctance and shyness to read Samskruth in Brahmi /Devanagari scripts of Bharath . The secondary and larger hit is on promotion, usage and writing of Hindi and many other Indian languages using Brahmi / Devanagari script, tolerance in slackness of
pronunciation, proliferation of flexible English spelling and pronunciation. That is ‘ Indian Localization of English, like Americanization of english’. 



**3. So much so, it challenges to find an answer to the question, written on wall and staring** **at the face**: How would the education of Devanagari Script, the official script of National language of India would be handled in Indian schools, education and academic scenarios ? And Samskruth education, which depends on ‘Devanagari script literacy’ ? **Would Samskruth be muted for its speech? Would Samskruth be ‘ Silenced for its ‘accented Voice’ to keep its status of a ‘ Classical / Classically Dead Language’ ?**



For your contemplation please.



Regards

BVK Sastry







To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().

  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

--  

You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  

To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().



