+++
title = "001 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2011-04-19, 03:21:28 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/9wJtGHxLUVk)]]



Dear Dr. Joshi:

  

Thank you for kind words. Only reason I brought in the issue of Mercury toxicity is because Ayurcedic physicians and scholars are ignoring the possible side effect. Which often include complete kidney shutdown, blood in seaman,excessive growth of Candida and many others. After evaluating the current research West is making recognizing the side effects and trying to remove mercury from the environment to reduce exposure.

  

My primary concern is not efficacy of various products that utilize bhasma per say, but concern is abut the associated toxicity.  

  

Present day Ayurveda practitioners and manufacturers seem to be forgetting or conveniently ignoring a famous statement from vagbhatta :

  

prayogaH shamayet vyaadhiM yaH anyamanyamudiirayet \|  

naasau vishuddhaH shuddhastu shamayedyo na kopayet \|\| vagbhaaTTa aShTaa.ngahR^idaya (dhoShokramaNiiyamadhyaaya) 13.16 \|\|  

  

Meaning - A therapy which pacifies disease (symptoms) and gives rise to other diseases (symptoms) in not a pure therapy. The correct one is the one that pacifies without manifestation of other problems.

  

I hope to publish my commentary on aShTaa.ngahR^idaya with a pharmacological perspective. Some of the delivery form used in his formulations, clearly document his exceptional understanding of pharmaco-kinetics and pharmaco-dynamics.  

  

For this reason I am trying to understand the relationship between "rudra & mercury" from ancient tantra and current scientific knowledge. What that has described and have the commentators considered the possible side effects or whether it was all geared towards Gold?  

  

As far as I know, mercury is one of the metals that does not occur naturally in India but is fairly abundant in Western and Eastern regions of China.  

  

Best Regards

  

Yadu  

  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**From:** "[gira...@juno.com]()" \<[gira...@juno.com]()\>  
**To:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
**Sent:** Monday, April 18, 2011 1:08 PM  
**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Ayurvedic drugs (Re: {&#2349;&#2366;&#2352;&#2340;&#2368;&#2351;&#235 7;&#2367;&#2342;&#2381;&#2357;&#2340;&#2381;&#2346;&#2352;&#2367;&#235 9;&#2340;&#2381;} The 'abhushana' of women)  
  

April 18, 2011



Dear Dr. Yadu,



Thanks for this scientific posting. I heard several times in India that Mercury is Veerya of Shiva. I never understood its meaning. Also I see in elementary Ayurvedic books description of Lohabhasma, Suvarnabhasma etc.and their use on certain bodily functions. I do not remember seeing anywhere chemical composition given of these Ayurveda drugs. We need scientists like you who have modern knowledge of Chemistry, Pharmacy and knowledge of Ayurvedic drugs. Then things fall in right place.



N.R.Joshi  

  

  

