+++
title = "009 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2011-04-19, 22:06:39 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/9wJtGHxLUVk)]]



Respected scholars:  

  

The point that I am trying to drive at, ("the apaaNipaada puruSha") was and will always remain focused on the "Safety" and "Contraindications" that has been ignored by the present day Ayurvedic practitioners. This is the reason why I gave specific example of Razor Blades being used for preparing loha bhasma. In another example I mentioned about not using the traditional approach of preparing chavanpraasha.  

  

Many issues can be resolved if proper standards get established by the regulatory body that oversees safety, such as FDA. Ayurvedic companies and practitioners keep talking about "Efficacy" but disregard "Safety".
Unless this changes nothing will move forward for the better for Ayurveda, which will remain in the attic or the basement of antiquity.  

  

Having personally analyzed and reviewed the analytical results from many commercial Chavanpraasha; I had proposed one of leading manufacturers,
"Why not create a product that is free of toxic heavy metals and just the advertise, "At XYZ organization we do not believe in wasting money on endorsements from movie stars of celebrities, we just make product safer" and provide the documentation in a simple bar graph. Picture is worth the thousand words. I have no doubt that such a product will not only appeal to the Global market but in India it will drive out the marketing potentially sub-standard products. Unfortunately, rational projects never appeal to Indian manufactures. All of them talk about Giitaa and Madhawa and Shankara but prefer to reside in Charwaka domain.  

  

Having stated my position, which is also in total alignment with the interpretation of term "rudra".

  

As I understand from my limited understanding of shaastra and grammar is that the term as defined by yaaskaa is:  
  
yadarodiit tadrudrasya rudratvam - The cry of rudra is the rudratva (Please correct my understanding). I believe that this shruti was explained in taittariiya (1.5.1.1).  
  
Similarly, saayaNaacaarya defines as, "rodayti sarvamnatakaale iti rudraH  
Meaning - One who make everyone cry at the end.  
  
Now, if we consider Mercury as the toxic element associated with the term rudra, then the associated juNadarma of mercury will manifest its effects. (Some of them I had sent in my earlier posting, including bloody seaman, overgrowth of Candida, Autism, neuro-damage .......... etc). Manifestitation of mercury toxicity has nothing to do whether the exposed person is rudra/shiva bhakta. It simply make one suffer & cry at the end.  
  
(NOTE: If one is taking a calculated risk under the expert supervision of Ayurveda Practitioner and patient is in terminal stage then above scenario applies to a limited extent.)  
  
Destructive nature of rudra is quite evident from R^igveda (2.33.10; 7.46.1), where he destroys animals and human beings. His weapons destroying animals and human lives is evident from R^igveda (1.114.10).
Withe a slight variation similar thoughts are expressed towards our enemies atharvaveda (11.2.22; 6.90). Probably having had no recourse (having become "hatabaddha" IMO - the origin of namaskaara) our ancestors must have resorted towards worshiping rudra.  

maa nas toke tanaye maa na aayau  

maa no goShu maa no ashve Shu riiriShaH \|  
viiraan maa no rudra bhaamito vadhiirhaviShmantaH sadamit tvaa havaamahe \|\| 1.114.8 \|\|  

  
Could this type rational be responsible for creating rituals which took the form of homa described in ashvalaayangR^ihyasuutr (8.40) and kaushikashrautasuutr (5.1.7) ? any comments in this regard would be highly appreciated. Here I am looking at the upauktaa (utility) of rituals, which if true then would become equivelant to the real spiruality. Ultimately, all knowledge is for the living, either for the individual or for the society he lives in !  
  
Thank you for allowing me to share my thoughts and helping me further my understanding of scriptures.  
  
best regards,  
  
Dr. Yadu

  
  
PS: Dr. Bhat could you possibly give me the exact reference for your quotation.  
Thanks  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**From:** hnbhat B.R. \<[hnbh...@gmail.com]()\>  
**To:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
**Sent:** Monday, April 18, 2011 9:56 PM

  
**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Ayurvedic drugs (Re: {भारतीयë 7;िद्वत्परिë 9;त्} The 'abhushana' of women)  





