+++
title = "001 Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)	2014-03-25, 11:03:26 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/H0tmIXLJyiA)]]



Namaste



1. After going through the document sent, I agree with the observation: \< अभिज्ञानशाकुन्तल के मौलिक पाठ की दुर्गति कैसे हुई है
\>. The implication of the statement \< balavadapi shikshitaanaam, na sadhu manye prayoga-vijnanam> in the drama opening by Sutradhara
needs to be clearly understood.



2. Brining in the ‘Biblical Victorian sensitivity- analysis about Sex’ in to Indian Poetics ( =Bharateeya Sahitya Shaastra) , detailed and addressed ever since Bharatas Natya shaastra ( I am not going to Ramayana and Mahabharata parts!) is a blunder.

Also please don’t push ‘ Censor ship’ here. Abhijnana Shaakuntalam was not written as a family watch play to be broad cast on television network or village dramas for all night vllage folk watching like Ramayana /mahabahrata / shanimhatme etc;.



I wish you had watched a session at Bangalore recently on the Bangalore literary festival, having a public debate on ‘ young adult erotic writing in regional languages ‘ ( - for which current name is erotic literature /soft porn ). The sensitivity of todays social audience is NOT the standard of a ‘Sahrudaya’ fo whom Kalidasa wrote the work ( -



 If this is going to be the order, then the worship of ‘ Ardhanareeswara, Harihara putra Ayyappa, as a devataa, Raasa leelaa
et al would be interpreted psycho-analytically as a ‘ perversion practiced as ‘ devotion’!



3. Coming to stage practice –directions of third act of Abhijnana Shaakuntalam , there have been decent ways of presenting the themes and poets intentions with ‘sahrudayataa –rasajnataa ‘ and without any tinge of ‘ ashleelataa’. Having taken part in the stage presentations of Shaakuntalam under eminent directors , I am aware how the directors ( Sutra-Dhara /Prayoga nirdeshaka) handles these issues.



There is no need to make a big mountain on this.



4. If one really wants to see what is ‘ ashleelataa –praakrutham’ read Rajashekhara’s work Karpura manjari. Or the rest of the nine divisions of dasha-roopakas leaving out Nataka!



Regards

BVK Sastry



------------------------------------------------------------------------

No virus found in this message.  
Checked by AVG - [www.avg.com](http://www.avg.com)  
Version: 2014.0.4354 / Virus Database: 3722/7241 - Release Date: 03/24/14

--  
निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
---  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

