+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-10-17, 18:24:25 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/bTXrdYg63t4)]]



CFP for Pacific Asia Inquiry  
\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*  
From: James D. Sellman \<\<mailto:[jse...@uguam.uog.edu]()\>[jsel...@uguam.uog.edu]()\>  
  
CALL FOR PAPERS: Sustainability and Change in the Pacific Asian Region  
Pacific Asia Inquiry: Multidisciplinary Perspectives Occasional Papers in  
the Liberal Arts & Social Sciences Issue 2, Spring 2011.  
  
Scholars are invited to submit papers focusing on Sustainability and  
Change in the Pacific Asian Region. All submittals are expected to focus  
on one or more of the following areas: semantics, language arts, fine  
arts, society and culture, education, energy, the environment, and  
sustainable issues ofMicronesia. Articles, critical essays, and case  
studies both applied and theoretical across theliberal arts and social  
sciencesare welcome. The research emphasis of this occasional series  
accommodates in-depth studies on sustainability and change. Contributors  
are invited not only to share their innovative research, but also to  
challenge extant positions and perspectives. Any theoretical or  
methodological approach may be employed so long as it is documented in a  
readable style of writing that is accessible to specialists and  
non-specialists alike. Authors may submit their writing about problems and  
issues associated with any ethnic group,national culture, historical  
period, genre, or media so long as it has some scholarly or intellectual  
relevance or relation toPacificAsia. Manuscripts focusing on or  
including the Micronesian region of the Pacific are of particular  
interest.  
  
Submission Procedure: Include the following: on a separate page, provide  
your name, title and affiliation, and addresses (including street and  
e-mail addresses); abstract of the paper; and the manuscript. Our blind  
peer review processrequires that author names and addresses appear only on  
the cover page. It is important that no identifying information appear in  
the paper itself. Relevant publications including the submitter's name as  
an author may appear in the reference section as long as nothing is said  
to connect the reference with the submitter's identity. Authors must  
follow the conventions of the Publication Manual of the American  
Psychological Association (5th ed., 1994), or the MLA Style Manual and  
Guide to Scholarly Publishing, (3rd ed., 2008). If the manuscript is  
accepted by reviewers and the Editor, the author is required to revise the  
manuscript into the final camera-ready version for inclusion in the  
journal. Only minor editorial adjustments will be made during the  
production stage. Articles are accepted for review with the understanding  
that they are not being considered, in whole or in part, for publication  
elsewhere and have not been published previously. Enclose a memo stating  
whether or not the essay has been published previously or is being  
considered for publication in another journal or medium.  
  
Note: This is a venue for scholarly essays. Fiction and poetry are not  
published. The inclusion of artwork, audio, and video is encouraged, to  
the degree that is technically and ethically feasible.  
  
Inquiries and Submissions must be forwarded electronically (.doc word doc)  
to:  
Pacific Asia Inquiry  
\<[http://webmail.uguam.uog.edu/src/compose.php?send_to=pacificasiainquiry%40yahoo.com](http://webmail.uguam.uog.edu/src/compose.php?send_to=pacificasiainquiry%40yahoo.com)\>[pacificas...@yahoo.com]()  
Deadline for submittal isJanuary 31, 2011  
Pacific Asia Inquiry, Issue 1, Spring 2010 may be examined and is  
available for free full text downloads at  
[www.uog.edu/dynamicdata/CLASSPacificAsiaInquiry.aspx\\](http://www.uog.edu/dynamicdata/CLASSPacificAsiaInquiry.aspx/)  
  
  
James D. Sellmann  
Dean  
College ofLiberal Arts and Social Sciences  
University of Guam  

  

