+++
title = "001 Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)	2014-02-18, 00:51:09 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/q-Y_7TBNTZ8)]]



Namaste



From my deliberations on this topic , developing ‘ How to Study-Teach Samskrutham : The pedagogical model of Paninian Traditions’. I have come to the following conclusion:



a) On \< on coining Sanskrit Grammar equivalent terms in English
\>: The ‘ technical samjnas and paribhasha’s of Panini are not easy to map to any other language –grammar terminology. Therefore, it is worth retaining the technical terms ‘As given’. i.e retain the ‘ Samskrutham Paribhashaa and Samjnas. Do not meddle with it. Let there be no trans-mapping of concepts of ‘Sandhit’ as euphony; Samasa as Word-chaining; Pratyaya as a meaning modifier and fixer.



The same logic gets extended to reverse translation of current languages vocabulary as ‘Sanskritization’. Retain the word ‘Television /Internet’ as ‘given base’ and process them as per technicality of Paninian grammar. The need to make an addition of last ‘a’ to simplify the process, use of krit- forms to overcome the challenge of learning the ‘ Ting –verbal forms’ - are conveniences. Samskrutham is not averse to welcome new vocabulary. But It surely is allergic and anti – in scaling down and sacrificing its core processing power.



This has the added advantage of keeping the deliberations True to the Original text, provide a standard continuity of thought across works which span across time periods like centuries. And prevents the original identity of Samskrutham. It will not become a Buddhist /Jain / Prakrit /Hybrid / Latinized /Anglicized Sanskrit. This is the only way the ‘Spiritual linguistic aspect’ (Vak-Yoga) of Samksrutham will be safe guarded in many other domains, where it is used as technical language.





The Vertical peaks of Himalayas ( Samskrutham) can not be made/ demanded / desired to be flat long metal-roads to help car dealers ( regional language users) to make their marketing hype : My car can take you to Himalayan peaks’.



If this places Samskrutham as a language frequented by limited people, be it so! The satellites carry a limited number of people to space and yet consume enormous amount of quality fuel to raise far above the earth. The satellite parts list \< = Samjna,Paribahshaa> is not same as a \< Spares parts list for a car>. The satellite is not meant for a local downtown trip. The satellite still serves extremely useful purpose and benefits society.





b) On \< can we call pratyAhAra as “abbreviated letter series” and ayogavāha as “non-enunciated letters” {ayogavAha- yoga=uapdesha=instruction; original enunciation; first or original precepts or teaching" So the idea is= they came without being enunciated. "un-enunciated" or "non-enunciated letters} \> My personal opinion : Traditional schools desire to keep the ‘ original enunciation’ as ‘ First Found Vision by a specific named seer- Visionary -drashTA :
Darshana by a Rishi ; Shaastra enumerated by a Shaastra-kaara / Rishi /Devataa . The unified recognition of the original enunciation and honoring of the First visionary goes together. The mortal becomes immortal by Visioning the Immortal Divine. The togetherness of the Darshana with the name of the Rishi is recognition of this value.



Regards

BVK Sastry



--  
निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
---  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/groups/opt_out>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

No virus found in this message.  
Checked by AVG - [www.avg.com](http://www.avg.com)  
Version: 2014.0.4259 / Virus Database: 3705/7098 - Release Date: 02/16/14

