+++
title = "000 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2016-02-21, 04:06:53 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/B-LCKDvTHPk)]]



Dear Dr. Shivani



What is the dead line to subnit the paper to this journal ? N.R.Joshi  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: Shivani V \<[v.sh...@gmail.com]()\>  
To: "[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()" \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
Cc: Padmashekhar s \<[padmash...@gmail.com]()\>, [yssgowd...@gmail.com]()  
Subject: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Inviting Research Articles ...  
Date: Sat, 20 Feb 2016 22:25:13 +0530  
  

Dear Scholars,

Hari Om!



Original research contributions are invited to the quadrilingual Samskrit/Kannada/Hindi/English) biannual Journal "Karnataka Samskritadhyayanam" (ISSN No - 2249-1104)of Karnataka Samskrit University.



1.  ### **Submission Requirements and Article Format**

&nbsp;

1.  Proposed/original Research contributions, book review, reply,
    critical comments on topics related to Samskrit and Indology are
    invited

2.  Submit material in Sanskrit /Kannada/Hindi/English.

3.  Articles should be from four to ten 1.5 spaced A4 size pages
    (standard Word document in 12 pt Times New Roman for roman and 13 pt
    Unicode font for Devanagari) in length. Articles may be edited for
    length and appropriateness of content for our readers. Diacritical
    marks must be Unicode compatible. A pdf format of the same file may
    also be attached.

4.  The title of the article should be bold, centered and typed in
    capital letters in a 14 point Times New Roman Font.

5.  The author(s) details i.e., full name, designation, name of the
    organization, city, Pin, state, country, e-mail id, contact details
    i.e. mobile/landline phone numbers, in 11-point Times New Roman
    should be centered below the title.

6.  All manuscripts must be accompanied by a brief abstract. Abstract
    including key words must not exceed 200 words. It should be in fully
    justified and italicized text. It should highlight research
    background, methodology; major finding(s) and conclusion in brief.
    Authors must mention 4-6 keywords. Key words should be listed
    alphabetically, separated by commas, and full stop at the end.

7.  The use of references and/or endnotes is strongly encouraged, as
    they increase the relevance and significance of an article and
    increase its relevance to the industry’s general body of knowledge.
    The author is responsible for obtaining any necessary permission for
    quoted or borrowed material.

8.  Articles based on surveys or questionnaires must indicate when and
    where the study was done, relate the number of respondents, and
    include a brief analysis of the results and an evaluation of the
    significance of the results.

9.  Graphics and artwork should be submitted separately from the text,
    in jpg, tif or gif format. Again, the author is responsible for
    obtaining any necessary permission for borrowed material.

10. Book reviews should be from two to four pages (standard Word
    document in 12 pt Times New Roman and 13 pt Unicode font for
    Devanagari ).

11. Use endnotes at the end of the article, rather than footnotes, to
    credit sources.

12. Include all relevant source information (e.g., author, publisher,
    title of book or article, magazine name, date/year of publication,
    country of publication).

13. Include a brief biography including current position, background,
    professional affiliations, and books or articles published. Avoid
    including educational information.

&nbsp;

1.  ###  **Review Process**

&nbsp;

1.  Manuscripts submitted to the Journal are acknowledged by the staff
    upon receipt. Manuscripts are subject to review by members of the
    Editorial Board. The Editorial committee may suggest a Peer Panel
    for reviewing the articles. Decisions to publish or not, request for
    revisions, re-submission of articles rests entirely with the
    discretion of the Editorial Committee. When the review process is
    complete, authors will be informed of the reviewers’ comments and
    recommendations regarding publication.

2.  Each article published in the Journal becomes part of the
    *Journal*’s overall copyright, Prior permission of the publisher is
    necessary for reproducing part or whole of the text in print or
    electronic media.

3.  The accepted articles are scheduled for publication in the
    chronological order in which they are accepted.

4.  There is no honorarium for *Journal *authors.

    

    Please e-mail manuscripts to: [shiva...@gmail.com]()

Editor

Karnataka Samskrit University





--  

Dr. V Shivani  
Associate Professor

Karnataka Samskrita University

Bangalore



--  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**Citi® Double Cash Card**  
Earn Cash Back Twice on Purchases Earn 1% When You Buy, 1% As You Pay  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/56c8ea4aaef096a4a7a46st03vuc)[https://ad.atdmt.com/c/go;p=11042209007766;a=11042209015528;ev.a=1;idfa=;idfa_lat=;aaid=;aaid_lat=;cache=](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/56c8ea4aaef096a4a7a46st03vuc)

