+++
title = "000 Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma"

+++
[[Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma	2010-10-01, 17:58:18 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/ThaxkRJS5-E)]]



नमो महद्भ्य:,  
The last photo features Kumari Ahalya, (a student  
who played the role of Karna in the Sanskrit Play,  
*Karnabharam* during the Valedictory function of  
Samskritotsava in Sringeri) receiving the Gita Press Edition  
of the Sanskrit Text, **Srimat Valmiki Ramayanam,** from  
Dr.S.Ramakrishna Sharma.  
**Thanks to Sri Jagannatha Ji for his posts on the need of  
spreading the Original Ramayanam among the Sanskrit enthusiasts  
in particular.**  
**I have found that the Text is like SIM Card and the Vyasapeetham is  
like the Mobile Set. The पारायणम् becomes efficacious when the presence  
of Sri Ramayana Rama is activated by placing the Text on the Vyasapeetham.  
LET US WALK THE TALK  
I hope to distribute at the least 10 copies to the deserving during  
the forthcoming Navaratri.**  
**।।श्री रामजयं ।।**  
  

---------- Forwarded message ----------  
From: **Dr S Ramakrishna Sharma** \<[direct...@gmail.com]()\>  
Date: Fri, Oct 1, 2010 at 5:05 AM  
Subject: Fwd: Photos of Valedictory function of Samskritotsava  
To: [d.ramak...@gmail.com]()  
  
  
An attempt to "walk the talk".  
  

---------- Forwarded message ----------  
From: **Hariprasad Hebbar** \<[haripras...@yahoo.com]()\>  
Date: Thu, Sep 30, 2010 at 9:06 AM  
Subject: Photos of Valedictory function of Samskritotsava  
To: [direct...@gmail.com]()  
  
  

Ramakrishna Sharmaji,

 I am so sorry that I couldnot send photosin time which you asked.Now I am sending the same.



Thanking u



Dr.Hariprasad.K

Asst .Professor

Rajiv Gandhi Campus

  

  
  
  
--  
Aangirasa/ Dr.S.Ramakrishna Sharma  
Director,CSRD(Non-Profit)  
<http://www.wikieducator.org/User:Director>  

  
  
  
--  
Aangirasa/Dr.S.Ramakrishna Sharma. M.A.,Ph.D.(Eng.Lit.),Ph.D.(Sanskrit.).  

