+++
title = "029 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2015-09-29, 03:59:51 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/SgCHpx5UYes)]]



Sept 28, 2015



Prof RNI , Prof. J. Prasad and other respected scholars,



Has any body tried to locate the holy placed called Pindaaraka Teertha? It is said that this teertha was constructed by Shree Krishna. The story goes that here Saamba (the son of Krishna)received curse from sages. Thanks. N.R.Joshi

  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: rniyengar \<[narayana...@gmail.com]()\>  
To: भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत् \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Ganesha in Veda, Tantra and Purana  
Date: Mon, 28 Sep 2015 02:28:51 -0700 (PDT)  
  

Nice to learn that you are interested in Prabhasa-khanda (PK). Kapardi-Vinayaka is described in Ch. 38.

I do not have a soft copy. My printed version in in Kannada script. For a soft copy please try

  

<http://gretil.sub.uni-goettingen.de/#Pur>



H.Bakker of Netherlands has worked on the Skandapurana extensively. My interest in the text is not from the religious view point. Since the PK describes a natural disaster including, earthquakes, tsunamis and the drying of river Sarasvati I got interested in the text deeply. The original River Sarasvati did not reach the present day SOmanath. The Prabhaasa (where Sarasvati entered the Sea) that is described in the PuraNa and MBh is not Somanath but a place in the Little Ran-of-kutch region, possibly nearer to present day PaaTaN. The geography described in PK has bearing on ancient history, including the location of Bhallatirtha where Sri Krishna left his body. It appears to me that Somanath in Saurashtra was known as Chandra-prabhaasa in contrast to another place Surya-prabhaasa in northern Gujarat. If you are interested in these discussions I request you to start a new thread.

regards



















> 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > > > 
> > > > > > 
> > > > > > > 
> > > > > > > > 
> > > > > > > > 
> > > > > > > > On Sep 18, 2015 1:03 AM, "'Jayanthi Manohar' via > > > > भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" \<bvpar...@googlegroups.com\> wrote: > > > > > > > > 
> > > > > > > > 
> > > > > > > > 
> > > > > > 
> > > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> > 







> 
> > 
> > 
> >   
>   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > --  
> > 
> > **Kamlesh Pathak** >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 



--  
निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
---  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

  
  

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**Buffett’s New Enemy**  
Buffett just confirmed his worst fear. Click here for his warning.  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/5609bf5aa50eb3f5a2fc2st04vuc)[fool.com](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/5609bf5aa50eb3f5a2fc2st04vuc)

