+++
title = "032 R. N. iyengar"

+++
[[R. N. iyengar	2015-09-29, 11:46:20 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/SgCHpx5UYes)]]



Dr.Prasad, Dr.Joshi

  

Thanks for the photographs. 

Purely from academic interest, I like to mention that as per Skandapurana Bhallatirtha has to to be somewhere along the tropic of cancer. This would make any place near present day Somnath to be a later thought. That is if we agree Puranas might be containing historical information of value.In the prabhasa-kshetra-mahatmya (PKM) Chapter 9 a query is raised as to why Kr.s.n. a chose Prabha¯sa for his last days. In PKM Chapter 10, the place, Bhalluka¯ti¯rtha, where he passed away is described as being a small region of the size of a cow-hide, which cannot be identified without knowledge of the scriptures. In PKM Chapter 352, this place is called Bhalla tirtha, where Kr.s.n.a was cremated on the twelfth day of the Bha¯drapada month. Quite interestingly, it locates the place as

  

विषुवं वहते तत्र नृणामद्यापि भामिनि । (१०.२२)



माघ्यां मघ्यां समॆष्यन्ति सरस्वत्यब्धिसङ्गमे । (१०.२८)

  

My understanding of the above info is that the place was remembered to be closer to the present day Patan (पाटण्) rather than Veraval-Somanath. If this argument is plausible, then the original Dwaraka also has to be searched for in the above region.

  

Pindaraka tirtha as described as being slightly north of Prabhasa. Perhaps Pindwara of Sirohi has a connection through its lakes? (this is a piece of speculation only!). There is one inscription that refers to a solar eclipse and Pindaraka. I will have to refer to my notes to give more details. My recollection is that the inscription does not locate the place but only mentions the name of the tirtha.

  

regards

  

RN Iyengar

  

On Mon, Sep 28, 2015 at 10:11 PM, Jsr Prasad \<[jsrap...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > The geography described in PK has bearing on ancient history, > > including the location of Bhallatirtha where Sri Krishna left his > > body.  
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Scholars who are yet to visit Bhalka-tirth (Bhallatirtha) may be > interested in the attached images. I clicked them a few months back > during my visit to Veraval, using a camera phone. The peepal tree > still can be seen inside the inner-sanctorum.  
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > --  
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
> ---  
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > You received this message because you are subscribed to a topic in the > Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this topic, visit > <https://groups.google.com/d/topic/bvparishat/SgCHpx5UYes/unsubscribe>.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and all its topics, send an email to > [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com](). >
> 
> > 



