+++
title = "000 Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma"

+++
[[Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma	2010-06-09, 04:30:16 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/aMrF7sQEJFo)]]



हरि: ॐ  
नमस्ते।  
All Universities and the affiliated institutions of Higher Education, autonomous  
educational institutions, many NGOs and organizations do have Sanskrit quotations,as perhaps fancifully selected or well intended choice. Indeed, we should  
"do some more research and get all of them" as Sri RamanaMurthy put it.  
  
"Serve to deserve" and such quotations in English are also found without any Sanskrit stuff in many monograms. However, it is better to keep the Mleccha Bhasha at an arms distance like the foot wear we use in the public toilet. We use it that is all and leave it where it should be.  
  
More important is another practical way in which these Sanskrit mono-graphic quotations are to be used.  
**LET US WRITE THEM ON THE TOP OF ANY OFFICIAL/PERSONALCOMMUNICATION TO THE DEPARTMENTS AND BRING THE QUOTATION TO THE NOTICE OF THE OFFICIALS WHO READ OUR LETTERS. IN OTHER WORDS, HIT BETWEEN THE EYEBROWS!**  
I have attached a monograph which is remarkable in which you will find वेद अपोउरुषेय: !  
  
  
  
  

On Tue, Jun 8, 2010 at 11:58 PM, RamanaMurty Kandikuppa \<[ahaska...@yahoo.com]()\> wrote:  

> [TABLE] >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > --  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google  
> Groups "Foundation for Indian Scientific Heritage" group.  
> To post to this group, send email to  
> [foundation-for-india...@googlegroups.com]()  
> To unsubscribe from this group, send email to  
> [foundation-for-indian-scie...@googlegroups.com]()  
> For more options, visit this group at  
> <http://groups.google.co.in/group/foundation-for-indian-scientific-heritage?hl=en?hl=en-GB>  
> HERITAGE AWARENESS MAKES AN ENLIGHTENED CITIZEN. >
> 
> > 

  
  
  
--  
Aangirasa/Dr.S.Ramakrishna Sharma. M.A.,Ph.D.(Eng.Lit.),Ph.D.(Sanskrit.).  

