+++
title = "018 Krishna K"

+++
[[Krishna K	2011-02-05, 19:25:18 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/tLU7mvXUYkE)]]



2011/2/2 Dr. Yadu Moharir \<[ymoh...@yahoo.com]()\>

Namaste,

\> 1. Has discussion for last few thousands of years helped us in any way?

As we both have seen in the vAdAvaLi list, a discussion helps the  
people discussing (to a point), and other 'observers'. I don't think  
the number of years of discussion is any indicator of a discussion's  
utility.

\> 2. R^igveda 5,29.15 a pyayer to Indra clearly state that the composition  
\> was done by them (R^iShi) then how can that be not authored !?:  
\>  
\> indra brahma kriyamaaNaa juShasva yaa te shaviShTha navyaa akarma
\|  
\> vastreva bhadraa sukR^itaa vasuuyuu rathaM na dhiiraH svapaa atakSham \|\| 5-29-15 \|\|

Even if this verse can be \_somehow\_ interpreted without losing  
apauruSheyatva, there are many other such vedic statements - ahameva  
svayaM idaM vadAmi (R.g. 10.125.5), nama R^iSibhyo mantrakR^idbhyo  
(khila), 'avatu mAm, avatu vaktAraM', where the speaker acknowledges  
that these words are theirs. In response to this, Sri Jayatirtha says:

na hi veda vayaM puruShAbhiprAyapravesha eva nAsti iti vadAmaH \|  
tathAtva sankalpa-prArthanAdivAkyAnAM anarthakatvaprasangAditi bhAvaH  
\| kathaM tarhi apauruSheyatvaM ityata Aha - shAsvatA (viShNu  
buddigAH) iti \| shashvadekaprakArAH pUrvaM sthitAnyeva vedavAkyAni  
kAnichitkaishchitpuruShaiH svAbhiprAyapraveshena prayujyante na tu  
apUrvANi kriyanta ityabhiprAyaH \|

Essentially, when one intends to say something, there are two  
possibilities: one is to compose sentences that convey the purport,  
and another is to use already composed sentences. When we chant  
stotras written by saints, when we use proverbs, when we sing film  
songs 'contextually', when we are just copying somebody, though the  
utterance is the speaker's, the composition is not his. So therefore  
apauruSheyatva cannot be objected to, on this ground. Even explicit  
mention of specific time, place, event, person is explained using the  
idea of 'pravAhato nityatva' (events recurring in a repeating cycle).

Now one may think of this as either 'explaining' or 'explaining away'.  
The choice is, ofcourse, determined by their predisposition. But one  
cannot miss the point that logically, purely from a logical point of  
view, the contents of a statement cannot be used to determine whether  
it is apauruSheya or not.

Regards,  
Krishna  

