+++
title = "000 Dr. Tirumala Kulakarni"

+++
[[Dr. Tirumala Kulakarni	2011-08-14, 11:57:02 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/KZkMXg875n8)]]



Dears  
  
Here is an announcement on a workshop. It is arranged for the lectures of Sanskrit colleges affiliated to Karnataka Sanskrit University. Other interested persons can attend it. (Please inform your participation to [tkula...@gmail.com]() or 09448879734.)  
  
TK  

**  
  
Workshop on**  
**Sanskrit - Computers**  
**INFORMATION and APPLICATION**  
  

***(Sponsered by Karnataka Sanskrit University, Poornaprajna Vidyapeetha and SHMT Project \[DIT, Govt. India\])***

  

***Dates* - 17th to 19th Aug. 2011**  

***Venue*: Poornaprajna Vidyapeetha, Vidyapeetha Circle, Bangalore - 28**  

--------------------------  
**17-8-2011**  
9.30AM to 10.15AM Inauguration Function  

**Inaguration** by  

**Dr. Mallepuram G. Venkatesh**, Vice Chancellor, Karnataka Sanskrit University

  

**Chief Guest**

**Dr. K. Shesha Murthy**, **Dean,Vijaya Academy for Information Technology**, Bangalore

  
**Prof. A Haridas Bhat, Principal, Poornaprajna Vidyapeetha, Bangalore**  
  
  
10.30 to 11.15 Keynote Address by**Dr. Srinivasa Varakhedi, Director, Sanskrit Directorate, Karnataka Sanskrit University**  
Q&A  
  
11.30 to 1.00**E-library and it's use**- Demonstration and Practice By**Dr. Tirumala Kulakarni, Asst. Prof. Alankara Dept. Poornaprajna Vidyapeetha, Bangalore**

  
2.00 to 2.15 Informative talk on**Rick Briggs' Paper**By**Dr. Tirumala Kulakarni**  
  
2.20 to 3.30 Practice  
  
3.40 to 4.30 Demonstration on Basic Things in Windows (Typing in Sanskrit \[Baraha etc.\], Fonts, How to use Sanskrit in MS Office etc.) By**Srinivaskumar N Acharya,** Lecturer - Dvaita Philosophy Resource Centre, Manipal University, Manipal

  
  
4.30 to 5.00 Practice  
-----------------------------------  
**18-8-2011**  
  
9.30 to 10.00 Practice  
  

10.00 to 10.15 Informative demo on**Man-e-script** by **Srinidhi V**, Research Associate, IIM Bangalore  
  

10.20 to 11.00 **Tools Available for Sanskrit**; Special focus on SHMT Anusaraka (Tools available on[http://sanskrit.uohyd.ernet.in/scl](http://sanskrit.uohyd.ernet.in/%7Escl)) -**By****Sheeba**, Deputy Director, Chinmaya International Foundation Shodha Sanshtan, Veliyanadu, Kerala

  
11.15 to 1.00 Practice of tools  
  

2.00 to 2.15 Informative talk on**BVP and its benefit by K Ramachandra,** Karnataka Sanskrit University  
  

2.15 to 2.30 **Introduction to Karaka tagging by Dr.** **Amba Kulkarni,** Head, Department of Sanskrit Studies, University of Hyderabad  

  
  
2.30 to 3.30 Practice of Karaka Tagging  
  
3.45 to 4.10 Informative talk on**Brief history, present day situation and scope of Sanskrit Computational Linguestics By Amba Kulkarni  
  
**3.45 to 5.00 Discussion using complicated examples and Practice  
----------------------------  
**19-8-2011**  
9.30 to 10.00 Practice  
  

10.00 to 10.15 Informative demo on**Ashtadhyayee from Computing Aspect** by **Sridhar**, Computer Engineer, Bangalore  
  
10.20 to 11.00**Building****various tools for Sanskrit Analysis**describing the methodology and architecture. By **Amba Kulkarni**  

  
2.00 to 2.15 Informative demo on**Sanskrit Wikipedia by Srinivasa**, Sanskrit Bharati, Bangalore  
  
2.00 to 2.30 **Ganakashtadhyayii** (Taralabalu Software) **& Sanskrit and Internet** -**By K. Ramachandra**

  
2.30 to 3.30 Practice  
  
**3.45 Valedictory Function**  
  

Divine Presence and Certificate distribution by -  
**H.H.Sri Vidyadheesha Teertha Swamiji, Palimaru Matha, Udupi  
  
Presided by :**   

**Dr. Mallepuram G. Venkatesh**, Vice Chancellor, Karnataka Sanskrit University

  
**Chief Guests :**  
**Prof. D. Prahladachar, Former Vice Chancellor, Rashtriya Sanskrit Vidyapeeth, Tirupati  
Dr.** **Amba Kulkarni,** Head, Department of Sanskrit Studies, University of Hyderabad  
**Vidwan U Keshava Bhat**, Secretary, Poornaprajna Vidyapeetha Pratishthana, Bengalore  
  

  

Experience of participants  
Experience of instructors  

Vote of thanks

