+++
title = "001 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2017-12-10, 08:41:24 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/W0qp--egkpA)]]



Namaste



1. Thanks Prof. RNI for the wonderful article and identifying a critical area that needs to be addressed in Samskruth studies in relation to Music. Fortunately, Colonial writings have not added their ‘coloration’ in this segment of Samskruth Voiced studies.



2. Your paper is valuable when one connects your concluding observations to the tradition of Ramayana as ‘sung to the tune of Veena ( Veenaa vaadana tatvajnau, shruti jaati vishaaradau) in the royal court as well as public and yajna events (veenaa vaadinau gaayata..)
And Vyasa ‘ Kusheelava’ Samskruth discourse in poetic form for audience, ‘The creative composition models of the ‘Karnataka Sangeeta Masters’ like Tyagaraja – Purandaradasa, Shyamashastry, Deekshitar and
bhagavatars, ’. If one can renovate this segment, then one can look at the possibility of understanding Abhinavagupta’s work on Bharatas Natya Shaastra and Veda –Samgeeta kalaa.





3. Your paper is still more relevant when there is a double jeopardy of (a) Sanskrit studies and proponents who have minimalized the ‘ True Human articulation’ ( The Patanjali prescription related to Ucchaarana) in teaching and studies at almost all levels , expressing enthusiasm and great desire to keep the ‘ classical status of Sanskrit’ and companionship of ‘ colonial model of linguistic studies, aligning Samskruth phonetics to roman alphabet structures’ and (b) Untold distancing of Scholars of Sanskrit (Text-Teams) with Veda instruction ( Yajna –performers) and Bharatham – Sangeeta – Nrutya- Kalaa trainers (Performing teams).



4. The model of a ‘Saint like SriRaghavendra Swami’ who excelled in Veda- Shaastra – Kalaa together seems a distant past glory and a almost lemurian paradise and kumari kundam !



 ( Note: Of course Modern Science discredits these theories using \< conventional scientific consideration after the theories of plate tectonics and continental drift> and greater leaning to support Darwinian model of evolution. Much of these science theories have been on the boiling pot of discussion and research. Many researchers in these areas draw upon Samskruth resources, which may need a relook and research to understand the ancient history of Bharath, the theories from Shaastras about cosmology and ‘ Life –Consciousness- Matter –Energy relations’. One thing is for sure: When Sanskritists take up this study without the right kind of Science team partnering, it has been like running a Olympiad race with one leg and borrowed wings hoping to fly and win the race. Any way, the ‘ resources do not get allocated to the competent people to do the research’ is a different issue, not to be lamented on this occasion!) (**What is lemuria** ? – See url : <http://themindunleashed.com/2013/08/the-lost-continent-of-lemuria.html>




Regards

BVK Sastry 



--  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

