+++
title = "008 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2017-12-20, 17:42:11 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/W0qp--egkpA)]]



Namaste Prof. RNI



Thanks for the mail. The differences you have pointed are right and valid. Neither you nor me are responsible for such a legacy haunting us ! Why, then are we sensitive to these issues ? and engage and defend a position ?



The model and pedagogy of language study, adapted to understand
history, philosophy, religion, mysticism, spirituality are distinctly different between Vedic and Abrahamic schools. The scholars error in translations due to incomplete knowledge of inside-practitioners understanding needs a serious attention. Many times these pursuits have been ‘ past time entertainment / engagements of scholars’ in purist of an unsatisfied quest**. Due to the lack of worldly pecuniary and position benefits**, these end up as ‘post retirement studies’ and ‘vana-prastha engagements / alternate pursuits for self-satisfaction, with none to interact question, audit or answer ! This is in majority cases, the state of scholarship in Samskruth field. What west has done, scholars of tradition in East are blissfully ignorant and inactive. What oriental scholars have presented as ‘tradition through translations’
carries several compromises. When this is questioned by Scientist as well as Economist for proof, for ‘ Contemporary relevance of discipline’, blank faces, emotional upsurges erupt. The battle calls echo to defend ‘swa-desi’ and ‘ swa’ of ‘desi’ when ‘ sarswa’ is already looted ! The old question from Naasadeeya sukta: Kasmai devaaya havishaa vidhema ? Somebody knows the truth, perhaps, or even they may not know it !



We can always work together to figure out the better understanding tradition and ‘ puraa-vrutta / itivrutta’ ( Western term: Land History) of Bharath ***distinct from*** ‘ Itihasa –Purana’ (Western Term: Mythology –Religion), aka ‘ sampradaya’, even though, both genre of texts use ‘Paninian Samskruth Bhashaa’ and common sounding terms with a ‘ different Technicality: Paribhashaa’. Example : ‘Veenaa’. The dictionarie do not provide adequate help here. One needs to take additional help from Nirukta and Vyakarana and Paribhashaa of discipline.



1. About Music, yes \< The Indian gamut is more abstract as detailed in the Sanskrit treatises. \> . I agree.



2. On \< but it all depends on 'how one connects'. If this leads to claims such as "the present day Veena was known in the Tretayuga", then I am afraid it becomes empty rhetoric.\> I agree. The error pointed out by you is done both by oriental and western researchers for ages ( *itihasa darshana* ) and the legacy is thrust as ‘ acclaimed research’ ! And is continued in the Indian side as ‘ valued gift from west ( *pitru paitamaham dhanam*)’. Both teams have violated the sacrosanct rules of Samskruth. And no team is willing to see things objectively ! and get back to the way ‘Samskruth was designed and used’. Corruption of pedagogy of language is a serious issue that has vitiated Samskruth research. I am not holding any fig leaf defense for ‘ lack of historic time line constructions and claims made within the tradition’. That is a mirror image of the errors on the other side !



3. My other observations on Samskruth research related are shared in response to Professor Veeranarayana Pandurangi’s post.



The point is :The surviving Samskruth team, bruised and depleted needs to stop internal bickering and find ways for team work. I am open to work with all the teams in the interest of Samskruth.



