+++
title = "001 Dr.BVK Sastry (Gmail)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (Gmail)	2013-10-21, 12:51:00 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/Zl1bbr9Yg8E)]]



Namaste



1. The crux of discussion in the mail thread below is : How to find a linguistic notation marker for a Vedic accent, in the context of UNICODE Standards. Combination of shortcomings in technology in language modeling can not be corrected by addressing peripheral issues at the level of font. Presuming that a solution is some day arrived for the ‘ current models of vedic writing systems’ to ‘ meet the ‘ Unicode’ frame of ‘Visual representation using additional visual markers’, the final solution will create a much bigger Frankenstein than it is intending to solve ( Or resolve / dissolve) ! The ‘ font’ approach may help to produce a present day ‘ visual text’ – for global distribution over the web, which eventually becomes ‘ unintelligible for any useful Voice value decoding in learning or pronunciation in any vedic learning school ( for the teacher, for the student, for the analyst).





2. The first thing to note ( even in classical sanskrit/ much more so in Veda) is : Anusvara is a swara related issue ; anunasika is swara and vyanjana related issue, albeit each one having different purposes. The anunaiska ‘ swara like ‘a’ can not be represented the same way as ‘ anunasika vargeeya vyanjana/ avargeeya vyanjana’. The ‘ ear experiences the sounds differently’ because the sounds are ‘ pronounced differently’ ; and each articulation carries a different associated linguistic memory . So the visual notation for the sounds needs to be different.



3. If the base of these markers = language characters coming from different code pages follows different glyph patterns ( like Devanagari / tamil /telugu), then the technicality of positioning and rendering the ‘sound –process modifier’ will have to be technically different. The same logic of IPA diacritic cannot be applied as extension as ‘ Fixed position’ marker over the roman alphabet character set. The phonemics change because of the change in the ‘ base’ and ‘ language-grammar specificities of process’. This is extremely critical for the Vedic text, which is Voice-sensitive to ‘ swara’ ( which technically is NOT the ‘accent ( alpa-maha pranataa related/ hardness or softness / nasalization)’ or the ‘ stress ( - Speaker idiosyncrasy in pronunciation, on where the pressure – force is made’. 

Unless the individual ‘Varna’ features are firmed , the next level of ‘ Order of phonology and typing can not be firmed up.



4. The current document on Vedic Unicode does not answer this issue fully, because the ‘ language modeling and constraints’ under which that document was deliberated was different. 

5. Technically, unless the two key issues of ‘language modeling’ and
‘ human voice representation in visual beyond the scripted language character set ( - the limitation of character anchored approach of Unicode and W3C) is addressed, the issues can not be resolved in a culturally and linguistically appropriate way. This calls for a move from ‘Language technology (LT) ’ to ‘ Language Appropriate Technology (LAT)’ .



Presuming that a solution is some day arrived for the ‘ current models of vedic writing systems’ to ‘ meet the ‘ Unicode’ frame of ‘Visual representation using additional visual markers’, the final solution will create a much bigger Frankenstein than it is intending to solve ( Or resolve / dissolve) ! The ‘ font’ approach may help to produce a
present day ‘ visual text’ – for global distribution over the web, which eventually becomes ‘ unintelligible for any useful Voice value decoding in learning or pronunciation in any vedic learning school ( for the teacher, for the student, for the analyst).



Already one such Frankenstein is in english for the ‘ diacritic markers and phonation symbols’ which no ordinary english user seems ever to use; And for Devanagari characters, the ISCII (IS13194:1991 ) added new markers which seem to remain beyond the formal language education of any Indian language ( especially Samskrutham /Hindi ; and at Gurukuls teaching vedic systems) and how to create documents –use them for proper reading. 



The entire issue needs a different perspective and fundamental level review.



Regards

BVK Sastry



--  
निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
---  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/groups/opt_out>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

No virus found in this message.  
Checked by AVG - [www.avg.com](http://www.avg.com)  
Version: 2014.0.4158 / Virus Database: 3614/6764 - Release Date: 10/19/13

