+++
title = "010 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-07-08, 08:07:49 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/4xzwijCJiZk)]]



Namaste



1. The specific ‘ involved’ question/s raised are clearly answered in the link provided , if only one cares to read the commentary fully and carefully, following the guidance provided there in. 



 There is a prerequisite needed to use ‘Chandas in Mantra –Application’ before one jumps to the ‘ practice, siddhis, broad shoulder comments on ‘textual tradition and language’. 



 The guidance for Chandas and its application in mantras comes from Shaunaka and flows in to a connected disciplines of Aagama , Tantra and Yogopanishads.



 All use ‘ Samskrutham’ as language of text. But ‘ Yoga’ portrayed in each case is different. Therefore there are different text- traditions.



2. In the present case, The vyaakhyaana on very next page of the debated text of ‘ Ganapathyatharva sheersha’ says :



 ‘**sarvam, mantra-shaastroktavidhivat kaaryam, sheeghrasiddhi-pradatvaat’**. 

 The instruction is for UTILITY –BENEFIT (VINIYOGA) . Dr. Yadu has clearly mentioned this in several posts earlier.



3. In the construction used to frame the present debated post,
there are multiple error models and modes; and a clear lack of ‘ integral understanding of the text- tradition- practice’, including the
very text of the commentary cited :



 Ganesha Atharva Sheersha Upanishad is considered as a ‘DARSHANA’
( Visioned – Heard ‘ Chandas). The commentary is explaining how to get the UTILTY- APPLICATION BENEFIT (VINIYOGA) of the ‘ DARSHANA’.

 The meaning of the term ‘Chandas’ in the context of ‘ DARSHANA/ SUKTA / Veda Mantra’ needs to be understood from the guidelines provided by Shaunaka .

 The meaning of the term ‘ Chandas’ in the context of ‘ VINIYOGA / JAPA ‘ needs to be understood from the ‘ Mantra-Shaastra vidhi’ provided by Tantra-Shaastra works.

 The TECHNICALITY OF SAMSKRUTHAM is different in each context. The understanding of ‘ Taarena ruddham’ emerges from the very construction of the ‘ Sukta’ and is explained in the vyaakhyaana.



4. The errors at the root of the formulated ‘question / post , seeking clarity on ‘Chandas’ are to be seen in two ways : 



*** First : Inappropriate model-porting of ‘Chandas’, lacking clarity on Vednaga and forced usage of Classical ‘ vrutta-ratnakara
models and scales’. ( Pingalas Vaidika Chandas is not complete text to cover the needs of Tantra - Viniyoga)***.

 The analysis of Ganesha ‘ Nichrut Gaayatri chandas’ needs ‘Yoga’ mode of ‘ understanding ‘Samskrutham’. 

 The guidance starts from ‘Articulation of Varna- Aksharas. This is
provided by appropriate sections of Shikshaa Shaastra’ and fine tuned to the specific ‘Aagama’ and ‘devataa’.

 In this case, it is from shikshaas of Atharva veda – related Praatishaakhyas and then to the ‘ Aagama / Tantras’.

 The final instruction is ‘ Articulation’ ( ucchaarana).

 **Ruddham** is explained in commentary as ‘ **yuktam**’ ( = Samyuktam = unified, not just articulated as a ‘ phoneme- conjunct).
With what? The **‘ taara’**. The commentator clearly says that ‘taara’ is well known, and it is NOT explained. Conventionally it stands for ‘ Pranava’. How to say and unify ‘Pranava’ ? Certainly not a discussion theme for ‘ public group posts’ !



 We may be doubting and lacking details on the above issues and practices; lack knowledgeable people to provide instructions and demonstrate ‘Siddhis’ for analysis in a ‘ Laboratory’ with ‘ test batch’ ; But the available text and commentary, even now, is clear on the above issues. 



 The next question that pops up would be : Can neuro-lingual
experiments be designed to test the text ? The answer is Yes. The ground for the design of the experiments needs to be by the guide lines of ‘ Paninian Vedanga linguistics’ and ‘ ‘ Human practitioners Body frame by Ayur-veda guidelines for modeling’. This is the frame in which the above Yoga-texts have emerged.



 What we seem to have today as ‘ research in this area’ is ‘ analyzing every four legged animal as a cow’ , because, that is what the machines can detect and deal with in measurement. 



 In other words, it is a call to study ‘ Samskrutham’ the way it was designed and used by the ancient writers as ‘ Vak-Yoga’, instead of asking the ancient writer to have imagined the ‘ internet –smart phone savvy anglicized Sanskrit users needs’.



***Second is challenge of ‘ Mantra construction and practice as ‘deficient and deviant’ by the standards of choice works dealing with ‘chandas’ ? without clearly grasping what ‘Chandas’ in VINIYOGA means !***



 The post reads: Also in many tantric mantras without sufficient aksharas mention is made of chandas as in virat / gayatri etc. How does this work? How is this meant to be applied? With providing a logical argument base constructed as \< In **Vedic pronunciation**, there is a clear pause between padas divided on the basis of chandas thereby altering rhythm. **How does the same apply when there are not enough aksharas to justify the chandas**? \>



 The answer for this is already present in the commentary and the ‘ original sukta’.

 In the original sukta, the technicality of ‘Dhyaana in Chakras’ is given. This connects to ‘Tantra- Yoga’.

 In the commentary, the nature and process of mantra is given. This explains the ‘ Language and Yoga aspects of Mantra usage in
Japa-Dhyaana.



 \< 'evam ganaadim poorvam **ucchrya**' ityaadi, ' taarena ruddham' ityantena **sanketa - shruti-vaakya-pratipaadita mantram janaah na jnaasyanti, manda-buddhitvaat**. \>



 The commentator goes on the instruction details on how the ‘**sanketa-shruti’** = **'inner articulation and unification of sounds is to be practiced, as pointed to in the Shruti'**.



 The articulation of ' anusvaaraotttaram binduh, saanunaasikatvaat' - is nazalised aunsvaara. The ‘ chandra-bindu’ script-symbols does not represent this properly.



 Then comes the 'yoga-part' reading **'eteshaam bhinaanaam, gakaaraadi chaturnaam, sandhaanam ekeekarana-saadhanam naadah**...>



 These are to be learnt as ‘ internal Voice processes’ ( Anatar- Uccharana). Therefore, the role of ‘ ear and mental effort to identify the ‘ inner rhythm slots and beats’ needs a different way of understanding the instruction for practice. An analogy may be helpful to explain the above text.



 When vegetables ( = Varna- Aksharas of mantra) are used to prepare soup ( = mantra –siddhi, where word ends up as materialized object and or action), the first step is chop the vegetables and then soft boil; It is a process in time and work with vessels, heat ( = Tapas / Taapa / Taapinee upanishads) . Depending on the efficient processing, one may / can see veggie pieces clearly floating in the soup bowl.



 On other hand, in preparing the ‘ Saambaar’ ( south indian variety, over boiled veggies with all spicy ingredients), everything coalesces and recognition of individual veggie piece and taste becomes difficult.



 This ‘process’ difference of ‘ Soup and Saambaar’ , where different vegetables are treated differently and end up differently is the essence of the terms ‘**sandhih – sammelanam – samhitaa’** (= Bring Together - Integrate and Unify through the process – Final Outcome to be auspicious, aesthetic and good as intended ) is to be learnt as a practice of ‘ inner voice construction and instruction.

 The success depends on students competence in practice to understand ‘Ganesha Vidyaa’. The text reads: \< **eteshaam naada-preritaanaam sandhih sammelanam samhitaa, yathaaa krama-uccharana-yogya-saamarthyaat>** 



4. Why all this complicated exercise and secrecy ? ? Why Ganesha for any one ?? Why Ganehsa Vidyaa ??



 The answer is again given in the commentary ! The text reads \<
**Ganesha vidyaa Ganesha Jnaana-pradaa; mantraatmaka- ganesha-moortimaya japasya 'Ganesha-santushti-kaarakatvaat'** \> 



 This ‘Ganesha Vidyaa yields the ‘ KNOWLEDGE OF Ganesha’.



 The ‘Ganesha’s constitution at this point is ‘ mantraatmaka’ = the ‘mantra-body’. (Is it the fifth panchabhoota – aakaasha Guna / aakaasha shareeram Brahma – is a question for Vedantins
to explore . The

 upanishat says ‘ Tvameva pratyaksham Brahma’
for ‘Ganesha’. This is Vedic; and Yoga based.



 The material based stone icon detailing/ Dhaatu- garbha’ is to be learnt from Aagama works. The yogas by Texts, Traditions, Practices, instructions and benefits are different. 



 When Yogas differ, Samskrutham also differs. When Teaming, process, elements are different, the outcome is uniquely different. One Ganesha becomes ‘ Ashta- moorthy/ vinayaka…….’ )



 In the present context, what is achieved by saadhaka through ‘Vedic Ganesha Vidyaa’ ? It is ‘ **Ganesha – Santushti- kaaraka’** :

 The cause to experience ‘aanada /bliss’ of the ‘ devataa – magnitude of Ganesha; Ganesha – Happiness’. 



 Like ‘ the magnitude of aananda by different lokas and residents of that level. **( devaanaam, aajaanajaanaam anadah….)**



5. **A poor translation of the term ‘ Ganesha Santushti - kaaraka ’ would be ‘ systems and methods, artifacts and rituals to Please
Ganesha ’ ( and seek a favor).**



 And outcome : external practices of ‘Faith and worship to please a physical entity by the iconic identification nomenclature called ‘Ganesha’.

 Further consequences : Total confusion on how ‘Ganesha is different from Vinayaka, Vigneswara , gajaanana, Paarvatinandana…….’
And psycho-linguistic analysis of Ganesha’s Trunk as a limp phallus in the academic circles !

 Does it mean ‘ Ganesha Temple /Mandir/ Moorthy worship is wrong ? No! The technicality and authorization for this comes from different class of works called ‘ aagama and Tantra’; the intention and goals are different. **It is a totally different science of aagama – tantra – puranas detailing ‘ Devataa – Viniyoga’. Aplication- Utility of Devataas** through ‘ **DEVATAA –PREETI’**. This is the very core ‘ religion-culture of Hinduism’ seeking exchange of favors from Devataas’. This is different from the pursuit of ‘ ‘ devataa – tattva – jijnyaasaa’ : : seeking the truth of ‘Devataa’ :: ( Kathopanishat – devaih api atra vichikitsitam …. Even Gods have less clarity .. on ‘ Brahma’ … )



 **What then is bad in current question ? Quest is right. Question-Analytics frames need correction for the Inappropriate mixing of ‘Veda – aagama – Tantra’** .

 Why ? Try tasting a mix of soup and coffee and coke using the logic : Both pass through the same mouth and enter the same stomach !



 Thus goes the sliding scale of ‘Ganesha – Samskrutham’, the scribe who was conditioned to understand every word and letter before scribing it !



Regards

BVK Sastry 



