+++
title = "007 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2016-05-13, 03:03:52 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/X-uWks1-wjA)]]



May 12, 2016



Prof N. Paturi, RNI and other scholars interested in the ancient Indian technology--



I have published the paper on the "Tough Steel of Ancient India".

British appointed scientist Faraday (electromagnetic induction famous) around 1826 AD to find out the secret of the Indian steel (Pulaad).

He could notfind it. The Russian scientist found out in 1850. Persian emperor was showing to his mother swords imported from India in 526 BC.

I saw these swords in Houston during the ASM seminar given by two engineers from California. The champion of Islam Saladin (Kurdidh) had sword from India.

I feel bad that no body told these things to me when I was studying in India. It is ok. N.R.Joshi

  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: Nagaraj Paturi \<[nagara...@gmail.com]()\>  
To: [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} About History of Science and/or Technology  
Date: Thu, 12 May 2016 13:08:02 +0530  
  

A very good course, unfortunately not yet heard to betaught at in Indian universities.



A list of places where it is taught outside India is here:



<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_colleges_and_universities_with_history_of_science_programs>



If this course is introduced in Indian universities, that will create an opportunity for discussing ancient Indian contributions too.

On Tue, May 10, 2016 at 5:55 PM, Bijay Prasad Upadhyay \<[ubija...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> > Dear scholars, >
> 
> > Please give me details about the institutes/courses in India where the > subject "History of Science and/or Technology" is being taught. >
> 
> > 
> > 

> --  

> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.  

  
  
  
--  

Nagaraj Paturi



Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA.



Former Senior Professor of Cultural Studies



FLAME School of Communication and FLAME School ofLiberal Education,



(Pune, Maharashtra,INDIA)









--  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

  
  

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**Better Finances**  
New Rule In Local Area  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/5734f68d975ac768d5192st04vuc)<http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/5734f68d975ac768d5192st04vuc>

