+++
title = "001 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2014-01-13, 22:55:16 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/bze_uqvzN20)]]



Jan 13, 2014  
  
Dear Dr. BVK , Thanks for your observations on VarNavAda. Give me etymology of Sanskrit word (Gardabha)please. This request is for other scholars of this list.  
  
Dr. BVK disobeys greatness of Sanskrit though Vedas and Vedangas and I describe it through VarNavAda. We both appreciate the ancient Indian language. Thanks. N.R.Joshi  
  
  
  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: "Dr.BVK Sastry\\(G-Mail-IMAP\\)" \<[sastr...@gmail.com]()\>  
To: \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
Subject: RE: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Englis h spelling of Sanskrit word  
Date: Fri, 10 Jan 2014 18:22:02 -0500  
  
Namaste Joshi ji  
  
Your point on \<varnavada> is partly correct and endorsed by traditional schools also. This is a key point and you have been ver strong on this point.  
  
The second part of \< Fixed meaning for Varna> is to be taken as a hypothesis for exploration. To make this, historicity of Sanskrit pronunciation is not a key issue.  
  
Additional points for contemplation:  
  
1. On \< Sanskrit scholars would like everybody to pronounce Sanskrit words correctly>:  
  
There is nothing wrong in it. Pannini insisted that. Patanjali said how to avoid the 'DushtaH ShabdaH' by the method of 'Shuddha-PaaTha / upa-desha'. It is a Voice-primary tradition. It is not a spelling system, like Latin or Greek OR Hebrew.  
  
Everyone likes vocabulary of their own language to be handled in a 'linguistically and culturally accurate and aesthetic pronunciation. And for Samskrutham, the standards are set - in a way freezed by the Panini tradition. The anchor rule books being Shikhsaa and Vedic recitation. Samskrutham teams are no exception to this rule.  
  
The difference between other languages and Samskrutham is this. For Samskrutham , there is a ' guidance and rule base to make a comparison for compliance or corruption. Mainly, a specific mode of Samskrutham application -Vedas hypothesize that yajna-viniyoga needs a perfection in pronunciation. The rules are made for this purpose. Call it a code compliance in today's lingo. I do not expect everyone in the world of 6000 plus human social languages to hold the same opinion towards 'Samskrutham' as 'a traditional indian vedic school adherent holds'. If the \< efficacy of (Samskrutham /Vedic /mantra) sounds to \< deliver the Swarga benefit> is not palatable to the current day audience, just leave it out as a faith issue. The standard of pronunciation does not get impacted by this.  
  
If the question is on proper pronunciation of Samskrutham from 'History perspective' tangoed with the 'current period social language usage by regional variations / expectations of Standard (?) language usage ', then the response needs to be made on two fronts:  
  
a) The Shikshaa works are ' Human voice mechanism process output analytics' for a specific goal of generating a particular phoneme. Shikshaa ends at the articulation. Vyakarana picks it up for the word processing. Chandas guides the word sequences for composition. Nirukta-Kosha guides it for the meaning. Jyotisha and Kalpa guide the deployment for yajna purpose. This is NOT history centric analytics or social language analytics. The social language is a pointer to Prakrutham , Apabhramsha -dialects, Mlechha and of course the 'foreign languages'.  
  
It does not ( and should not) matter whether a Kambhoja says a specific veda mantra or Magadha says it; today or ten centuries ago, the standard was and is same. The available voice document in applications would have been user specific.  
  
It is like Tyagaraja's music composition sung over hundred years still are Tyagarajas music composition. So is the case with the Veda suktas attributed to specific Rishi and chandas. One has the option of saying it in a compliant mode or go otherwise. When user makes their own deviation, then it is no more Tyagaraja's composition. It is modified version.  
  
It is true India has the weakness of ' historic written documents' that can be compared to the dead sea scrolls. Then look at the volume and diversity of Samskrutham documents. The sheer volume and diversity of carrying the text in human memory was relatively easy compared to written texts ( Lessons learnt by the destruction of documents that were burnt and destroyed by invaders at Takshashila and Nalanda). Has this in any way disturbed the efficacy of Samskrutham to provide a language-window to the past ? and intellectual deliberations of Indian seers ? So, let us use the available records and understand the properly.  
  
2. On \< This happens in all languages. From pure Sanskrit of the ancient Indian Brahmana Shistas, now India has more than 12 regional impure languages. If the language serves purpose of communication in everyday life, then the language is fulfilling its existence. Here question of pure and impure is irrelevant. \>  
  
Not necessarily ! This is where the uniqueness of Samskrutham and the rule base comes in. Samskrutham teams have made conscious efforts to maintain the standard of pronunciation of each 'Varna' in a 'word' (= pada) and the 'sukta ( Metrical structure). Rule base is provided to audit and filter out the deviations and corruptions. This is the mechanism of 'ashTa -vikruti pathas', the critical importance of Vyakarana needed in the recitation of 'Krama -PAtha'.  
  
IF Shikhsaa /Pratishakhya shastras identified and provided guidelines for the articulation of varna-maalaa sounds and the rules for proper pronunciation, way back before the current voice analyzing instruments / parameters of analysis like frequency et al came on board for discussion, then there is a purpose and method in it. It could be called empirical process; but the empirical process itself is ' human system anchored'. The sound of 'a' and 'ha' and ya and 'visarga' stand out clearly in a word like 'hyaH' (= yesterday) in Samskrutham. The improper pronunciation 'hayaH' ( =horse) will not be acceptable in the meaning of yesterday.  
  
Similarly sharkut -sakrut / Sakala and Shakala words. It is a language sensitivity continued over centuries.  
  
3. On Varna-vada point 1 \< VarNavAda. Here with the change of a single phoneme (VarNa) meaning is changed. So in my opinion for communication of right meaning, right pronunciation of Sanskrit words is required.> Up to this it is perfectly agreeable. There is no difference of opinion. It is also the stand of the traditional schools.  
  
4. On Varna-Vada- point 2 \< This becomes obvious in hundreds of Sanskrit words only when one uses VarNavAda (each Sanskrit phoneme is associated with specific semantic element consistent with physical properties of sounds of phonemes).> There are divergent views on this . Does the varna 'ga' carry the same meaning across 'Ga-nesha'- ' 'ga-rdhabhI', 'ga-ruDa'. It is this second point that you may have to push clearly and establish, without any exception to establish your positional statement: \< With VarNavAda, ancient Indian philosophical concepts start resonating with sounds of words. Once the student learns this internal beauty of Sanskrit words, he will start enjoying Sanskrit and makes effort to say it correctly. Correct pronunciation of course is learnt through listing (Shruti) to the right speaker of Sanskrit.-- Thanks. N.R.Joshi \>  
  
  
Regards  
BVK Sastry  

  
-----Original Message-----  
From: [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() \[mailto:[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\] On Behalf Of N.R.Joshi  
Sent: Friday, 10 January, 2014 12:51 PM  
To: [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Englis h spelling of Sanskrit word  
  

Jan 10 2014  
  
Respected Scholars, Namaskar!  
  
VarNavAda is answer.  
  
Dr. Ajit Gargeshvari has raised relevant question. Sanskrit scholars would like everybody to pronounce Sanskrit words correctly. It preserves purity of Sanskrit and it may even offer merit for obtaining Swarga or Brahmaloka in the next life. That is fine. However language is river. It is going to flow and going to undergo changes. I described before on BVP the Linguistic Principle of Least Efforts. People reduced Chandra to Chandar and Indra to Indar. It is easy to say. This happens in all languages. From pure Sanskrit of the ancient Indian Brahmana Shistas, now India has more than 12 regional impure languages. If the language serves purpose of communication in everyday life, then the language is fulfilling its existence. Here question of pure and impure is irrelevant.  
  
Prof Korada mentioned two word pairs in his posting.(1) Sakrit and Shakrit (2) Sakala and Shakala. It made me laugh because it is good material for promoting my VarNavAda. Here with the change of a single phoneme (VarNa) meaning is changed. So in my opinion for communication of right meaning, right pronunciation of Sanskrit words is required. This becomes obvious in hundreds of Sanskrit words only when one uses VarNavAda (each Sanskrit phoneme is associated with specific semantic element consistent with physical properties of sounds of phonemes).  
  
With VarNavAda, ancient Indian philosophical concepts start resonating with sounds of words. Once the student learns this internal beauty of Sanskrit words, he will start enjoying Sanskrit and makes effort to say it correctly. Correct pronunciation of course is learnt through listing (Shruti) to the right speaker of Sanskrit.  
Thanks. N.R.Joshi  
  
--------------------------------------------------  
  
  
  
  
  
Please note: message attached  

  
From: Ajit Gargeshwari \<[ajit.gar...@gmail.com]()\>  
To: भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत् \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Englis h spelling of Sanskrit word  
Date: Tue, 7 Jan 2014 22:47:20 +0530  
  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
Do THIS before eating carbs &#40;every time&#41;  

1 EASY tip to increase fat-burning, lower blood sugar & decrease fat storage <http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3141/52d0331e2af72331d1878st01vuc>  
  
--  
निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
---  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/groups/opt_out>.  
  
-----  
No virus found in this message.  
Checked by AVG - [www.avg.com](http://www.avg.com)  
Version: 2014.0.4259 / Virus Database: 3658/6992 - Release Date: 01/10/14  
  
--  
निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
---  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/groups/opt_out>.  

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
Do THIS before eating carbs &#40;every time&#41;  
1 EASY tip to increase fat-burning, lower blood sugar & decrease fat storage  

<http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3141/52d421c91105f21c86bccst02vuc>  

