+++
title = "001 Dr.BVK Sastry"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry	2011-02-16, 09:24:38 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/TFtj9M5uCDA)]]



Namaste Joshi ji  
  
  
There is a need to work diligently for cleaning the ' Stables of Vedic  
tradition soiled by bad translation and lack of proper methodology /  
validations; and unattended for almost three hundred years ! \>. The  
goal should be to have a clarity between 'Veda – Vijnana' - '  
Prakruti/ Upa-Veda Vijnana'- 'Vedanta-Vijnana' . First one is Science  
of Nature. Second is Application of Knowledge got from Science of  
Nature. Third is Science of Spirit, which probes to the roots of  
Nature and how Nature came to be what it is. (= Prakruti-Purusha -  
Sarva moola Vijnana ).  
  
1. The Udupi/Puttige conference presentations review pointed out the  
following:  
  
  
a) 'Veda' / 'Vedas ' yield multivalent understanding based on the  
following:  
(a-i) application of methodology of decoding and (a-ii) different  
models of use of traditional resources. This is acknoweldged even by  
traditional schools.  
The views for the same term in one school of vedanta may not be the  
same in another school of vedanta / another darshana -shastra / upa-  
veda context.  
  
b) What is called 'vijnanam'in the context of veda-related studies  
is NOT the same as ' Modern Sciences - in the branching/ sub  
divisions like - material, social, life, social sciences.  
  
  
c) The methodology of Veda related studies, analysis of langauge,  
validation of terms to match with processes - items - concepts are  
distinctly different in vedic schols and modern science schools.  
  
  
d) Much confusion prevails as on date on the topic of 'vedic science  
- science in vedas ' due to each researcher associating preferred  
meaning to the terms Or mapping a scientific technicality to a  
traditional perspective, without validtion.  
  
For example, 'electricity' is technically defined as flow of  
electrons/ charge flow ; electricity as energy/ power form can do  
specific kinds of work, measured in qunatums of units like watt/  
joule ; flow of electricity is measured in specific units of  
measurement like ampers et al.  
  
Now, if traditional schools talk of 'Prana'as 'electricity' / and you  
bring in terms like saudamini-vidyut for electricity , how any one  
would link 'Prana'as life energy and 'lighteneing'as an atmospheric  
phenomenon ? What ever deliberation goes on will have only  
ínterpretational /philosophic value; the practical application would  
be questionable.  
  
I hope I have made my point on the importance of the methodology-  
terminology issues.  
  
  
The direction from Puttige conference for next deliberation covers how  
to progress on this dialogue on methodology- terminology.  
  
  
Till then, in my opinion, all the questions are welcome; but one may  
not have answers for them.  
  
For your specific question, which is good one reading: \< In stead  

of gross body, please explain to me how Aakaasha and praaNa produce  

electron, proton and neutron. I need all steps in the process.> There  
is a need for an ab-initio dialogue between 'Scientists –  
Traditionalists ' covering foundational concepts -processes  
related to matter- life-energy -consciousness . As long as one gropes  
in these areas, the claims of research contribution can not be fully  
validated. I am endorsing your view \< the modern science uses  
observation in everyday life and proceeds to build comforting  
technologies> with a supplemental note \< the traditional vedic  
science uses internal observation (tapas) to investigate life and  
proceedes to give solutions for Moksha / Sukha / Dharma /Dukha-  
naasha / Atma saakshaatkara / Deva darshana \>  
  
  
Regarding the following noting, all the points are addressed in  
the above paragraphs. \< My problem: If I have to explain to new  

generation that Vedas, Vedangas, Vedanta discuss scientific facts,  
then I need details. What sense does it make to take somebody to  
primal Prakriti and leave him or her there? Why do I get always vague  
answers in connection with Vedas, Vedangas, Vedanta and Science. We  
realized in case of Sanskrit words "ANu and ParamANu" how many  
different opinions were presented even these words have very ancient  
history. The purpose of my question was could I use ANu for modern  
atom and ParamANu for either electron or nucleus. But the question of  
electric charge comes into picture. There are four words for  
electricity in Sanskrit-Vidyut, SaudAminI, Tadit and ShampA. Do they  
mean the same or different? If different, what is the difference? To  
the best of my knowledge, the modern science uses observation in  
everyday life and proceeds.When it comes to the ancient Indian  
science, why should it start from unknown primal ocean or mahAbhoota  
Aakaasha and then starts descending down. I have no objection to that  
process even, but most of the time one is left hanging half way in the  
sky. Please just show me one single thing, dear Dr. Pande, how charge  
on electron came from the combination of Aakaasha and prANa? \>  
  
  

Regards  
  
BVK Sastry  
  
On Feb 15, 1:34pm, "[girav...@juno.com]()" \<[girav...@juno.com]()\> wrote:  
\> Feb. 15, 2011 Respected Scholars, Namaskar! Vedas. Vedanta, and Science There was discussion on this list on Vedanta and Quantum Mechanics. I am very much interested in that. Quantum mechanics has to do with fundamental particles of Physics. So I expressly made inquiry when Dr. Khem Chand Sharma (Delhi) presented paper on "Vedic Particle Physics" in Jan 21-23 seminar.No body reported about it on this list. Even Dr. BVK Shastry who attended seminar was not of much help. Replying to my question about "How GuNa of Aakaasha is Shabda?" Dr. R. Pande presented his view that everything came out of Aakaasha and PraaNa.He then described praaNa as the power which changes the Aakaasha into various forms, even gross forms like body. In stead of gross body, please explain to me how Aakaasha and praaNa produce electron, proton and neutron. I need all steps in the process.My problem: If I have to explain to new generation that Vedas, Vedangas, Vedanta discuss scientific facts, then I need details. What sense does it make to take somebody to primal Prakriti and leave him or her there? Why do I get always vague answers in connection with Vedas, Vedangas, Vedanta and Science. We realized in case of Sanskrit words "ANu and ParamANu" how many different opinions were presented even these words have very ancient history. The purpose of my question was could I use ANu for modern atom and ParamANu for either electron or nucleus. But the question of electric charge comes into picture. There are four words for electricity in Sanskrit-Vidyut, SaudAminI, Tadit and ShampA. Do they mean the same or different? If different, what is the difference? To the best of my knowledge, the modern science uses observation in everyday life and proceeds.When it comes to the ancient Indian science, why should it start from unknown primal ocean or mahAbhoota Aakaasha and then starts descending down. I have no objection to that process even, but most of the time one is left hanging half way in the sky. Please just show me one single thing, dear Dr. Pande, how charge on electron came from the combination of Aakaasha and prANa? Thanks. N.R.Joshi.  

\> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
\> $65/Hr Job - 25 Openings  

\> Part-Time job ($20-$65/hr). Requirements: Home Internet Accesshttp://[thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3141/4d5ac7788f7253d5518st01vuc](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3141/4d5ac7788f7253d5518st01vuc)

