+++
title = "002 Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma"

+++
[[Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma	2011-02-16, 15:24:44 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/TFtj9M5uCDA)]]



\>Even Dr. BVK Shastry who attended seminar was not of much help.  

Please note that the coordinator of the conference is very much alive  
whose posts regarding the conference appeared more than once.  
Even then, Dr Joshi Ji does not feel addressing the coordinator directly  
to send the paper by Dr Khem Chand Sharma Ji.  
Why 'even Dr BVK Sastry'?  
Common sense is something indeed very uncommon.

On 2/15/11, [gira...@juno.com]() \<[gira...@juno.com]()\> wrote:  
\> Feb. 15, 2011 Respected Scholars, Namaskar! Vedas. Vedanta, and Science  
\> There was discussion on this list on Vedanta and Quantum Mechanics. I am  
\> very much interested in that. Quantum mechanics has to do with fundamental  
\> particles of Physics. So I expressly made inquiry when Dr. Khem Chand Sharma  
\> (Delhi) presented paper on "Vedic Particle Physics" in Jan 21-23 seminar.No  
\> body reported about it on this list. Even Dr. BVK Shastry who attended  
\> seminar was not of much help. Replying to my question about "How GuNa of  
\> Aakaasha is Shabda?" Dr. R. Pande presented his view that everything came  
\> out of Aakaasha and PraaNa.He then described praaNa as the power which  
\> changes the Aakaasha into various forms, even gross forms like body. In  
\> stead of gross body, please explain to me how Aakaasha and praaNa produce  

\> electron, proton and neutron. I need all steps in the process.My problem:

  
\> If I have to explain to new generation that Vedas, Vedangas, Vedanta discuss  
\> scientific facts, then I need details. What sense does it make to take  
\> somebody to primal Prakriti and leave him or her there? Why do I get always  
\> vague answers in connection with Vedas, Vedangas, Vedanta and Science. We  
\> realized in case of Sanskrit words "ANu and ParamANu" how many different  
\> opinions were presented even these words have very ancient history. The  
\> purpose of my question was could I use ANu for modern atom and ParamANu for  
\> either electron or nucleus. But the question of electric charge comes into  
\> picture. There are four words for electricity in Sanskrit-Vidyut, SaudAminI,  
\> Tadit and ShampA. Do they mean the same or different? If different, what is  
\> the difference? To the best of my knowledge, the modern science uses  
\> observation in everyday life and proceeds.When it comes to the ancient  
\> Indian science, why should it start from unknown primal ocean or mahAbhoota  
\> Aakaasha and then starts descending down. I have no objection to that  
\> process even, but most of the time one is left hanging half way in the sky.  
\> Please just show me one single thing, dear Dr. Pande, how charge on electron  
\> came from the combination of Aakaasha and prANa? Thanks. N.R.Joshi.  
\> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
\> $65/Hr Job - 25 Openings  
\> Part-Time job ($20-$65/hr). Requirements: Home Internet Access  

\> <http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3141/4d5ac7788f7253d5518st01vuc>  
\>  
\> --  
\> अथ चेत्त्वमिमं धर्म्यं संग्रामं न करिष्यसि।  
\> ततः स्वधर्मं कीर्तिं च हित्वा पापमवाप्स्यसि।।  
\> तस्मादुत्तिष्ठ कौन्तेय युद्धाय कृतनिश्चयः।  
\> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
\>

  
--  
\*Aangirasa/Dr.S.Ramakrishna Sharma. M.A.,Ph.D.(Eng.Lit.),Ph.D.(Sanskrit.).\*  

