+++
title = "003 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2012-06-03, 02:42:05 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/bpKZ1cBSRyw)]]



Namaste Dr. Bhagwan Singh,

  

Thank you for sharing your observations with with group.

  

From the personal experience as a scientist, we are trained not to accept anything at face value but to let the thinking discriminative thinking guide the path of personal understanding. I have known Dr Joshi for over a decade and we are always looking to verify and cross check things from more than one place. The toughest customer for us is always ourselves. Often, we encounter hesitation and difficulty while negotiating the traditional views from scholars. Having said this, that is not different from the application of Shankarachary's statement, "canta sa iddhaH svaanubhuuti pramaaNam".

  

I really appreciated your openness to share your views with the group.

  

I sincerely hope that all the scholars from BV Parishat allow us to ask simplistic queries and doubts.  

  

With Best regards,

  

Dr Yadu  

  

  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**From:** Bhagwan Singh \<[bhagw...@yahoo.co.in]()\>  
**To:** "[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()" \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
**Cc:** "[gira...@juno.com]()" \<[gira...@juno.com]()\> value  
**Sent:** Thursday, May 31, 2012 7:28 AM  
**Subject:** {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} A new approach to Mahabharat  

  

Namo vidvadbhyah

One of the benefits of coming to USA for me personally was my meeting with Dr Joshi. I did not take him as seriously earlier even though I was impressed by his rational approach. His over-reliance on Mahabharat sources disturbed me. Now, even though I do not fully comprehend his stand I have no hesitation conceding that he has made a path-breaking attempt to understand the Mahabharata data with reference to geographical names of places and peoples outside Indian subcontinent. He gave some idea of his macroscopic vision earlier in his postings on bvparishat. His data collection is better than any other before him, his analysis appeared to be limited to only three sources, his study of MB, his intimate knowledge of the entire physical and ethnological geography of neighboring countries which he has visited in the course of his research. Personally I have different explanations in each case, but I may not be a good judge where views and conclusions of my own conflict with some other scholar.His vision that at some point of time the entire land reflected in MB was part of Indian could not be shared by me despite his rich data. A path-breaker has his own problem, specially if heworks apart from centers of learning and scholastic exchanges and we have our own limitations in grasping the ideas beyond our learned habits. There is no doubt that right from Harappan times, or earlier still there have been settlements of Indians throughout the region reflected in his study but, in my reckoning, these settlements were surrounded by local gentry not directly controlled by Indian rulers. I post it for others for others to offer their views.

BS

--  
निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
to subscribe go to the link below and put a request  
<https://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat/subscribe>  
To unsubscribe from this group, send email to  
[bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]()  

  
  

