+++
title = "006 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-09-04, 13:27:13 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/BKzUDbYMTk4)]]



धन्योस्मि

धन्यवादःकल्याणरामन

  

Respected Prof. Makkhan Lal ji,

  

I have arranged to send 2 copies to your address. I will also send to Prof. Bhagwan Singh ji, as soon as I get his address. I will deem it a privilege, if you choose to review it.

  

I wish many children get interested in language studies. We are inheritors of such a treasure of works in languages, e.g. Bharata's Natya Shastra, Bhartrhari's Vaakyapadeeya, Patanjali's Mahabhashya (apart from Panini's Ashthaddhyayi), Hemachandra Acharya's Deshi naamamaalaa (Prakrt grammar), scores of Nighantus. Now many of our language dictionaries are also available online. There is also a need to promote researches into our vishwakarma traditions. Ours is a cultural continuum which saw hundreds of mints from Takshashila to Karur producing punch-marked coins from ca. 1000 BCE (pace Prof. DR Bhandarkar's lecture on Numismatics). This work is also available in full online.**<http://tinyurl.com/28kw9b4>** As I was pouring into our lexicons, for nearly 30 years now, let me cite just one example. I found reference in Kittel, to a remarkable work in Kannada:Siddhanti Subrahmanya S’astri’s new interpretation of the Amarakos’a, Bangalore, Vicaradarpana Press, 1872 which refers to a gloss: aduru. 'ore taken from the mine and not subjected to melting in a furnace.' Rebus word, adar in Santali means 'bos indicus, brahmani bull or zebu'. Many such gemstones of our cultural heritage wait to be identified :)--

**  
**

**As we relate the grand narrative of our heritage, we often encounter the pessimistic statement, 'Indus script has not been deciphered so far'. I hope this tune will change as more multi-disciplinary researches emerge and we will be able to hand over the deepam handed down to us by our pitr-s and maatr-s burning bright to our next generation.**

**  
**

**Looking forward to your new books, Prof. Makkhan Lal ji, on the games historians play.  
**  

dhanyavaadah.

  

kalyanaraman  
  

On Sat, Sep 4, 2010 at 2:16 AM, makkhan lal \<[makkha...@yahoo.co.in]()\> wrote:  

> [TABLE]

> [TABLE]

> [TABLE]

> [TABLE]

> [TABLE]

> [TABLE]

> [TABLE]

> [TABLE]

> [TABLE]

> [TABLE]

> [TABLE]

> [TABLE]

> [TABLE]

> [TABLE]

> [TABLE]

> [TABLE]

> [TABLE]

> [TABLE]









> [TABLE] >
>   

  

