+++
title = "002 Dr.Raghavendra.Bhat"

+++
[[Dr.Raghavendra.Bhat	2014-09-20, 08:58:28 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/aOFRueFHVbI)]]



Namaste,

  

Dear Pradeep ji,

Pl.see the below link and you may use some references given in below :-

  

<http://www.iep.utm.edu/kashmiri/>  

  

(References are given only to works available in English.)

-   Dyczkowski, Mark S.G. *The Doctrine of Vibration: An Analysis of the
    Doctrines and Practices of Kashmir Shaivism.* Albany, New York:
    State University of New York Press, 1987.
    -   An historical introduction to monistic Kashmiri Shaiva religion
        and philosophy, centering on the Spanda system. -   Dyczkowski, Mark S.G, trans. *The Stanzas of Vibration: The
    Spandakārikā with Four Commentaries.* Albany: State University of
    New York Press, 1992.
    -   Elucidates how the Spanda system was interpreted in the light of
        the subsequent Pratyabhijnā philosophy. -   Lawrence, David Peter. *Rediscovering God with Transcendental
    Argument: A Contemporary Interpretation of Monistic Kashmiri Shaiva
    Philosophy.* Albany: State University of New York Press, 1999.
    -   Analyzes the Pratyabhijnā methodology and engages its
        substantive theories with Western philosophy and theology. -   Muller-Ortega, Paul Eduardo. *The Triadic Heart of Shiva: Kaula
    Tantricism of Abhinavagupta in the Non-Dual Shaivism of Kashmir.*
    Albany: State University of New York Press, 1989.
    -   Provides insight into Abhinavagupta’s synthetic spiritual
        theology, focusing on symbolism of the heart. -   Pandey, K.C., trans. *Īshvarapratyabhijnāvimarshinī of
    Abhinavagupta, Doctrine of Divine Recognition.* Vol. 3. Delhi:
    Motilal Banarsidass, 1986.
    -   The only published translation of Abhinavagupta’s shorter
        Pratyabhijnā commentary; a pioneering work, though problematic
        and rather opaque to nonspecialists. -   Sanderson, Alexis. “Purity and Power Among the Brahmans of Kashmir.”
    In *The Category of the Person: Anthropology, Philosophy, History,*
    ed. Michael Carrithers, Steven Collins and Steven Lukes, 190-216.
    Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1985.
    -   The first of a series of groundbreaking articles by this scholar
        on the social history of monistic Kashmiri Shaivism. -   Singh, Jaideva, ed. and trans. *Pratyabhijnāhridayam: The Secret of
    Self-Recognition.* Delhi: Motilal Banarsidass, 1980.
    -   A manual of basic principles of monistic Shaiva doctrine and
        practice in the light of Pratyabhijnā philosophy by
        Abhinavagupta’s disciple Kshemarāja. -   Singh, Jaideva, ed. and trans. *Shivasūtras: The Yoga of Supreme
    Identity; Text of the Sūtras and the Commentary Vimarshinī of
    Kshemarāja.* Delhi: Motilal Banarsidass, 1979.
    -   An accessible translation and introduction to one of the core
        texts of monistic Kashmiri Shaivism. -   Torella, Raffaele, ed. and trans. *The Īshvarapratyabhijnākārikā of
    Utpaladeva with the Author’s Vritti.* Corrected Edition. Delhi:
    Motilal Banarsidass, 2002.
    -   A foundational text and commentary on Pratyabhijnā philosophy
        with detailed scholarly annotations.

Dhanyavaadah..

  

  

On Sat, Sep 20, 2014 at 7:23 AM, Hnbhat B.R. \<[hnbh...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> > First please read the available literature and research papers on our > topic. Then you will get yourself started with your topic selected. > Abundant research works are done on Kashmiri Shivism.  
> > 

> --  
> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
> ---  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.  

  
  

  

--  

With warm regards,

***Dr Raghavendra Bhat  
[+91 8956610988](tel:+91%2089566%2010988)*  
[drbhat...@gmail.com]()**  

