+++
title = "000 Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma"

+++
[[Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma	2010-06-04, 12:45:38 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/2qWMh83cMn8)]]



हरि: ॐ  
नमस्ते।  
".....Now, a few words about Sanskrit University in Karnataka which had Government's nod in the recent past. If all the Pathashalas(Traditional schools of Sanskrit learning) will be affiliated to the University , Vidwat (highest degree conferred to the students of Shastra) holders will be eligible for Ph.D degree.(It is not possible at present).Scholars will have best research projects. Good library facility they can have.(Currently, the library facility is very poor in Pathashalas. Purchasing new books is almost nil.) Some Pathashalas don't enjoy good buildings. The class rooms are not spacious enough. The less said the better regarding furniture. In spite all these short-comings the traditional pundits are promptly doing their duty. Most of them are terrible scholars. They can perform shastrartha / vakyartha(traditional debate on Shastric subjects) in Sanskrit itself. Some of them produce high quality works on Shastras.  
Is it offense to demand official node for betterment of academic environment in Pathashalas ?............"  
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
The above observation is copied from: <http://mysorenext.com/ShowArticle.aspx?ID=1643&SECTION=7>  
Thanks to S.Jagannatha, Mysore for such a crucial suggestion. If it is deemed fit, this Group may forward a collective Appeal to the new Vice Chancellor of Sanskrit University, Karnataka to recommend affiliation of "Paathashaalas" for better and brighter future, without compromising with the traditional values and conduct of such centers of learning.  
प्रणाम:  
--  
Aangirasa/Dr.S.Ramakrishna Sharma. M.A.,Ph.D.(Eng.Lit.),Ph.D.(Sanskrit.).  

