+++
title = "020 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2012-11-12, 00:29:07 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/DGRVijLzoN0)]]



  

Namaskar Scholars

  

I think rather than thinking it as "A" OR/AND "THE" GOD particle, if one looks at this issue as a TEMPLATE then thing this puzzle can be resolved. To me the clue comes from तत्सृष्टवा तदेवानु प्रविशत्

  

A goods example is various Blood Groups O, A, B AB (Positive & Negative)  

  

Blood Group O is a universal donor, where as AB is a Universal Acceptor.  

  

Template of theses groups and their formation comes out of evolution.
The TEMPLATE itself is never destroyed. though what the template creates (RBC) gets perished every 90 days. That is why Diabetic individuals measure Hemoglobin A1c rather than just the fasting glucose. It is a medical fact we do not have a single cell that we were born with all the cells of the entire body is re-created from the original template.  

  
Thus the Template always remains eternal for the individual entity (animal, plant ...... etc) where as the individual live through the respective time cycles. (जातस्य हि ध्रुवो मृत्यु)  
  

Hope this helps clarify the concept of "Creator" that remains "Separate" while remaining an "Integral part of the Same".

  

I think our difficulty in understanding this concept arises out of having created the rigid structures around the concept of God with specific attributes that resulted in the iconic idol worship.  

  

Best rgds

  

Dr Yadu

  

>  style="font-family:times new roman,new york,times,serif;font-size:12pt"> >
>  style="font-family:times new roman,new york,times,serif;font-size:12pt"> >
> 
> > ------------------------------------------------------------------------ >
> **From:** sadasivamurty rani \<[ranisada...@yahoo.com]()\>  
> **To:** "[atcpt...@gmail.com]()" \<[atcpt...@gmail.com]()\>; Hnbhat > B.R. \<[hnbh...@gmail.com]()\>  
> **Cc:** "[rajaramn...@gmail.com]()" \<[rajaramn...@gmail.com]()\>; > Rachuri Achar \<[rrac...@gmail.com]()\>; "[rnpm...@gmail.com]()" > \<[rnpm...@gmail.com]()\>; "[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()" > \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
> **Sent:** Saturday, November 10, 2012 11:26 PM >
> 
> > 
> > 





