+++
title = "018 VKG"

+++
[[VKG	2010-06-15, 08:18:11 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/E5gFS_fyngI)]]



Dear Sri Hari Narayan Bhat!

Let me state some thing. The discussion started, whether any  
derivative meaning is available, or if some sort of clues are  
available to find out the Moolam of these words. If a reasonable  
meaning is not found, we can conclude that it is equivalent to Dittha  
and Dabhittha.

At the same time, we should appreciate the effort to unlock the  
potential of our mother language, to give out the stable and  
expandable platform to churn out innumerable words, for any language  
or form (with in the parametres of languages).

  
Even in Unaadi, we also have Vyutpatti Paksha, we should remember.  
Some of our friends commented that Sachin and Sachchi is the short  
form of Sachchidananda. It is used in Maharashtra and Karnataka. (Even  
before the advent of Tendulkar - Cricketer; this was in vogue, I was  
informed).

Regarding Nitin>

Nityendra> Nityen> (Samprasaraanam - Apaanineeyam)> Nitin. {Includes  
Samprasaarana Poorva Roopam) is suggested by a grammarian for fun.  
Though I discarded this, as Avyutpanna, just another excuse to push  
this to Prushodara. Similarly Nitish. (It could also be Neeteesha too)

  
Thanks for scholars to for their thoughtful comments.

Vamshi Krishna Ghanapathi  
Mysore

  
On Jun 14, 9:26am, hn bhat \<[hnbha...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  
\> Just a note in this regard with due respect to Mr. Subrahmanya's most  
\> well-based remark on Sanskrit Grammar and Language..  
\>  
\> Paninian Grammar is meant mainly for the usages in Sanskrit Language and  
\> not for the words in other languages though some sort of tadbhava or  
\> tatsama-s are used in most of the Indian Languages. It seems an effort is  
\> made here to trace the origin of such shabda-s or apashabda-s used in the  
\> other languages to some possible origin in Sanskrit language if possible at  
\> all. There need not be any certainty even in the case of dittha- etc. in the  
\> sanjna- words in Sanskrit language itself. Then why should we beat around  
\> the bush to trace the origin or derivation of such sanj\~jna words used in  
\> other languages to Sanskrit? In Paninian system itself the derivations given  
\> by Shakatayana are accepted tentatively, Unadayo bahulam even though they  
\> are well established words in Sanskrit language. But generally it is  
\> accepted that the words derived with Unadi suffixes can be considered as  
\> "avyutpanna-praatipadika-s for Paninian standards.  
\>  
\> With regards .  
\>  





\> \>\> \<[bvparishat%2Bno...@googlegroups.com]()\<[bvparishat%252Bn...@googlegroups.com]()\>



