+++
title = "008 R. N. iyengar"

+++
[[R. N. iyengar	2016-03-17, 15:41:50 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/8UriRbU6WbU)]]



a) Which polestar was visible during the Mahabharat war?

  

This question indirectly presupposes a period for the MB War! Whatever may be the period of MB several stars which have had the potential to be at the North Celestial Pole must have been visible. Hence alfa-draconis, k-draconis, i-draconis, kochab, alfa-U.minor (the current Pole Star), Vega etc must have been visible.

  

b) Does Mahabharat tell us about the change in the pole star?

  

Yes, it does. MB mentions that the star named Dhruva was moving.

  

*dhruvah prajvalito ghoram apasavyam pravartate\|\| (Bhi.Parvan 3.17)*

  

c) If so does this information help us in dating the war?  

It provides information on when MB war could not have occurred. The default option for calling a star "dhruva" should have been that it was "fixed" being too close to the North Celestial Pole so as to look fixed in naked eye observations. This was possible for only alfa-Draconis which was only seven minutes away from the Pole in 2830 BC. The name for this star originally was Abhaya as per Tai.Ara. We have to infer that
the fixed nature of the star was observed and it acquired the name Dhruva during 2800-2900 BC. Once the star had such a special quality, the adjective became the name itself. So MB statement (Bh.P 3.17) above could not have been valid before 2830 BC. The Vedic tradition of Dhruva was never isolated from the constellation Shishumaara. MB is no exception.

  

The archery competition for Draupadis' marriage was held in a town specially built in the north-eastern direction of the capital and it was named shishumaarapura, figuratively indicating that the constellation had changed its orientation as seen from earth, due to Dhruva moving away.

tataḥpurajanāssarvesāgaroddhūtanissvanāḥ\|

śiśumārapuramprāpyanyaviśantecapārthivāḥ\|\|

prāguttareṇanagarādbhūmibhāgesameśubhe\|

samājavāṭaḥśuśubhebhavanaiḥsarvatovṛtaḥ\|\|
MBĀdiParvan(Ch176 v 15,16)

  

Hence*dhruva*moving is anecessary conditionstated in MB, but by itself notsufficientto fix a specific year for the War.



Thanks for the questions.

  

RN Iyengar

  

On Thu, Mar 17, 2016 at 2:17 PM, rniyengar \<[narayana...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:



