+++
title = "000 Lakshmi srikanth"

+++
[[Lakshmi srikanth	2012-06-29, 20:06:26 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/RXSZlnHI4wg)]]



Sri Venkateswara Vedic University gives the utmost prominence to  
research and publication works. Department of Research and  
Publications is most prestigious asset of Sri Venkateswara Vedic  
University, which is vigorously engaged in publishing the works Veda  
allied sastras, related to the field of Various indological branches,  
Sanskrit translation of Oriental works, new ideologies and researches  
developed in the field, publication of various periodicals, Almanac  
and other papers etc. along with the most important work of publishing  
books on the basis of manuscripts of rare quality lying in vast  
numbers in Manuscript Library. As a part of this, the university has  
procured ancient text books and talapatra Granthas (palm leaf  
manuscripts) from various donors and has been preserving them. “Help  
procure ancient manuscripts. Help preserve our culture’’ is the rule  
they abide.  
  
As a logical consequence of its research focus, publication forms a  
thrust area receiving particular attention at the University. Some of  
the University’s most remarkable publications are: Adhikaranakaumudi,  
Sivajnanabodhah (with commentary of Siddhantasutra),  
Panchalakshanisarvaswam, Adhikarasangrahah (with commentary of  
Sribhashyasrinivasacharya), Karanagamah, Bruhati  
(Saabarabhashyavyakha), Nayadyumanih, Sankarashakaanandam, A study of  
Sanskrit inscriptions in Andhra Pradesh, Saamavidhanabraahmanamu (with  
Telugu Commentary), Jayaakhyasamhita, Laugakshigruhyasutraani(Devapala  
commentary).  
  
The nascent University, within a short span of Five years, has  
published as many as 61 works (3 research journals and 15 news  
letters), of which many are extremely rare. The University for the  
Present is publishing a Research journal named Sevadhi, a student  
journal named sruthasamvardhini and a periodical news letter in the  
name of vedapravrutti. The young university is glorified in bringing  
out works of reputed standard till now. This achievement of the  
University will certainly focus new light in the study of Oriental  
learning.  

