+++
title = "001 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2011-07-12, 03:13:15 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/oFqtmuk5uyQ)]]



Namaste:

  

muuShakasuukta appears in atharva veda 6.50 1-3

  

To me this is related to muuShaka, where our ancestors seem to have realized that aakhupati (muuShaka) is destructive and request ashvinikumaara (here they are regarded as the devataa) to help destroy them.  

  

I have been told that :"abhi-mantrita" sand and hair wrapped around sticks are place near their burrows. This could very well be some type of a mouse or trap for locust ? May be someone who knows more about this ritual practice comment on this by providing more details.

  

Here one requests to behead the muuShakaa and tie their mouth, in-order to save the crop.  

  

Along with muuSkakaa this is also intended for Locust, Grasshoppers ... etc.  

  

Most of die-hard GaNesha upaasaka are not even aware of this suukta.  

  
I am not sure this helps you in any way but personally I have not seen any one uses the mantric powers to drive out mice. However, if it can be demonstrated then that person can get rich beyond imagination. Or better yet create a school that teaches how to drive out the destructive pests. Even award Master's and Ph.D's to the successful students. This will be lot safer and environmentally friendly manner and students will also have a job security. for the students as each female rat produces approximately 300 babies a year.  
  
Most the rat poisons are extremely polluting for the aqua-furs as the poison that leaches through the ground. As the old saying goes, "if you want to get rich then invent a better mouse trap."  
  
Dr. Yadu  

  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**From:** "[gira...@juno.com]()" \<[gira...@juno.com]()\>  
**To:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
**Sent:** Monday, July 11, 2011 12:31 PM  
**Subject:** {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Re: {&#2349;&#2366;&#2352;&#2340;&#2368;&#2351;&#2357;&#2367;&#2342;&# 2381;&#2357;&#2340;&#2381;&#2346;&#2352;&#2367;&#2359;&#2340;&#2381;} Vedic Chanting – a Perfectly Formulated Oral Tradition -- Dr. S. Yegna subramanian  
  





[ConsumerLifestyles.org](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/4e1b4fef763edfb20fst05vuc) --  



