+++
title = "000 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2015-02-22, 02:57:04 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/LXoydcwiLGs)]]



Feb 21, 2015



Dear Dr. H.N.Bhat



Thanks for explaining '"ShabdasyAshabda" .

I was not sure about it. I understood it now better.

I also apologize for listing unrelated questions in one email. N.R.Joshi

  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: "Hnbhat B.R." \<[hnbh...@gmail.com]()\>  
To: [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Praayoktri and Laukiki  
Date: Sat, 21 Feb 2015 08:14:25 +0530  
  

  

  

On Sat, Feb 21, 2015 at 3:54 AM, N.R.Joshi \<[gira...@juno.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> > Feb 20, 2015 >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Respected Scholars, Namaskar! >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > I have three unrelated questions >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > (1) PrAyoktrI Vivaks'A and LaukikI Vivaks'A was explained previouesly > in Sanskrit by Prof Korada on BVP list. Is it possible to explain it > in English so I can understand better? >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 



I leave the first to Prof. Korada himself, who can better translate the explanation given him, as I do not remember seeing such the thread. But better it would be a fair thing thing, to give the link to the earlier thread by searching the group, when you raise a question in a new thread or continue in the same thread your new question/request.



The other questions were also raised several times in the group and one could search and find the links.



> 
> > (2) Sanskrit is also called GIrvANa bhAs'A. What is the meaning and > etymology of the word GIrvANa? Where did it appear first? Who used it > first?
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 



For etymology, you can read the etymology of  गीर्वाण and भाषा either in Monier Williams Dictionary or other English Dictionaries for explanation in English or in वाचस्पत्य, कल्पद्रुम for explanation. If you want the details of the historical origin, you can rever either to
Indo European Etymological Dictionary online available for registered users:



<http://iedo.brillonline.nl/dictionaries/>



This now coming to your question generally, the question is similar to
when the word देवभाषा is used or when the देवभाषा originated, which is synonymous to गीर्वाणभाषा. i.e. which means the Language of God and the question rests on the first users of the language were Deva-s and it is called the language of the God. This is what you will get from the etymology of the word. Panini himself has used simly भाषा for spoken language लौकिकः शब्दः, other than वैदिक. But both are used, in वेद-s and daily usage, but without any history of the words. or any information about the history of the speakers of the language. Others will reply.





> 
> > \(3\) Svam rūpam śabdasyāśabda Saṁjñā >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Out of 4 words, I could not figure out the third word? >
> 



> 
> > Is there sandhi or else? Ihave vague idea thatit has to do with word > and its meaning. >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 



I think Prof. Korada will reply better to this question in detail. You are right this has something to do with word and its meaning. It is a technical languuage of Panini and has to follow the metarules of Panini himself to understand the meaning of the sentenes.



स्वं रूपं शब्दस्य अ-शब्द-संज्ञा



Your counting of words may be different than the words in an English sentence. This itself is a metarue applicable to the whole of his grammar. So it is not a general statement regarding the word and meaning in general.



स्वं रूपं शब्दस्याशब्दसंज्ञा

In this grammar, a rule applying to a word applies to that word itself \[and not to words with similar meanings\], unless the word is a definition.



The above is a fine translation of the meta rule.



Thus, when he says "agne dhak" (The word "agni" takes the suffix ढक्, it is prescribed to the word form which is taken, by the word "agni" and does not include any other synonyms of the word "agni". So it takes only the form of the word and not its meaning is intended. स्वं रूपं शब्दस्य is a first part of the rule and the second part gives an exclusion to the technical words formed by Panini, used in his rules. When he prescribes वृद्धि, (the first technical term formed) at another place, as occasion demands, it will be effected in the contents of the technical words (here आ, ऐ, औ \[च्\] attached to its meaning. So in effect, when says वृद्धिरेचि, in sandhi, it replaces the vowels preceding with the vowels meant by the technical sign, and not by the word form वृद्धि.



This is the short translatin of the words.



--  
निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
---  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**How Old Men Tighten Skin**  
63 Year Old Man Shares DIY Skin Tightening Method You Can Do From Home  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/54e8f805a7bd27805063ast03vuc)[healthylivinglifeguide.com](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/54e8f805a7bd27805063ast03vuc)

