+++
title = "003 Arun"

+++
[[Arun	2011-01-01, 19:03:53 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/_yC4JS1o2Tg)]]



Quoted from History of the Calendar, by M.N. Saha and N. C. Lahiri  
(part C of the Report of The Calendar Reforms Committee under Prof. M.  
N. Saha with Sri N.C. Lahiri as secretary in November 1952-Published  
by Council of Scientific & Industrial Research, Rafi Marg, New  
Delhi-110001, 1955, Second Edition 1992.  
  
Page, 168-last para-“Caesar wanted to start the new year on the 25th  
December, the winter solstice day. But people resisted that choice  
because a new moon was due on January 1, 45 BC. And some people  
considered that the new moon was lucky. Caesar had to go along with  
them in their desire to start the new reckoning on a traditional lunar  
landmark.”  
  
Importance of winter solstice was ancient and Bhīṣma Pitāmaha departed  
on that very day in year 3139 BC-36 years before death of Śrī Kṛṣṇa.  
Now that day is called Christmas, though it was intended to be new  
year day. It has been assumed that the start was from new moon day.  
Actually, it was from start of Māghamonth of Vikrama year 11 lapsed.  
Vikrama samvat is only year which starts with dark half-all other  
lunar years start from bright half starting with new moon. Strong  
following of Vikrama samvat, just 10 years after its inception in Rome  
against wishes of Caesar shows influence of Vikramāditya.  
  
Page 180-“It has been shown by Dr. Hashim Amir Ali of the Osmania  
University, Hyderabad, that the Mohammedan calendar was originally  
luni-solar in which intercalation was made when necessary, and not  
purely lunar. ….  
  
According to this view, proper intercalation was applied in all years  
where necessary up to A.H. 10 and consequently the year A.H. 11 which  
started on March 29, 632 A.D.  
  
(Footnote)-Initial epoch of the Hejira era thus arrived at is the  
evening of March 19, 622 A.D., Friday, the day following the vernal  
equinox.”  
  
Thus, Hejira era also started with start of year in India-it was start  
of Vikrama year 679.  
  
-Arun Kumar Upadyay  



