+++
title = "000 Dr.Sampadananda Mishra"

+++
[[Dr.Sampadananda Mishra	2016-03-12, 17:05:49 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/zHSwtn8j19c)]]



Do you know why all the interrogative sounds in Sanskrit (कः, का, किम्, कुत्र, कुतः, कथम्, कदा, किमर्थम्, कति, कियत्, क्व ) begin with the sound क (ka)? Is there a logic to this?

I had this question in my mind from my childhood. And I had received the following answer to this question a few years back as a result of my contemplation.

"The logic here is that, the sound क (ka), phonetically, is the first consonantal sound, not just of Sanskrit but of the entire humanity. In Sanskrit Alphabet it is placed immediately after the vowels. The nature of vowels is that they are free flowing sounds without any obstruction. But the consonants are sounds produced by solid contact or obstruction of the air at different places. Among all the pure consonantal sounds it is क (ka) which is produced at the first position when the root of the tongue comes in contact with the soft palate. The speech organs in the human mouth are designed in such a manner that the speech sounds can be produced by manipulating the air at certain possible positions in the mouth. And the ancient Indian phoneticians have identified five distinct positions in the mouth among which the place from where the sound ka is produced is the first position. It is for the first time, if we go systematically producing the fundamental sounds in the Sanskrit Alphabet, that with क (ka) one experiences the obstruction. There cannot be any pure consonant that can be produced from a position below where from we say ka. So ka is the first consonant. Here the free flow of air that happens in the case of vowels is stopped for the first time.  

  

If we consider the nature of question as to stop the free flow of thoughts and then it befits to make interrogative words beginning with the sound क (ka).   

  

Is it not interesting?

  

In the table below I have tried to show how the interrogatives in other languages too begin with ka.  

  

  
(Sampadananda Mishra)

  

  

[TABLE]

  

