+++
title = "017 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2016-03-15, 04:13:00 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/zHSwtn8j19c)]]



March 14, 2016

It will be revealed slowly.



In VarNavaada, there are 36 consonants and and sixteen (fifteen) vowels. The full story unfolds in my Powerpoint presentation. It takes to see 2.5 hours. Many Sanskrit scholars have seen it, It is entirely new approach. It reveals internal beauty of Sanskrit words. Thanks. N.R.Joshi

  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: Bijoy Misra \<[misra...@gmail.com]()\>  
To: Bharatiya Vidvat parishad \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  

Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Why al l Interrogatives in Sanskrit begin with क ka  
Date: Sat, 12 Mar 2016 17:45:57 -0500  
  

Dear Dr Joshi,

You never revealed the full story of Varnavada.

Please post.

Thank you.

BM

On Sat, Mar 12, 2016 at 5:15 PM, N.R.Joshi \<[gira...@juno.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> > March 12, 2016 >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Dear Scholars B,Mishra, Dr Sampadanand, BVK,Now you all coming to my > VARNAVAADA. >
> 

> 
> > N.R.Joshi  
>   
> > 

> 
> > ---------- Original Message ----------  
> From: Bijoy Misra \<[misra...@gmail.com]()\>  
> To: Bharatiya Vidvat parishad \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
> Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Why all Interrogatives in Sanskrit > begin with क ka  
> > 

> 
> > Date: Sat, 12 Mar 2016 07:28:50 -0500  
>   
> > 
> > Dear Sampad and friends, >
> 
> > We are also looking into it. It appears neurological for the precise > reasons you have mentioned. >
> 
> > 
> > The connection could be how the sounds form as the infant grows. The > "ka" sound could be the >
> 
> > 
> > first effect on the infant on the "awareness" of the external > universe. The "ka" is adopted in the >
> 
> > 
> > meaning of the universe in older languages. The transition of > "awareness" to "interrogation" is
> > 
> > 
> > the formation of speech that tries to interpret the awareness. This > research is new. I would
> > 
> > 
> > have more to say in a year. >
> 
> > 
> > Best regards, >
> 
> > 
> > Bijoy Misra 
> > 
> > 
> > 









> 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > [TABLE] > > > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > [TABLE] > > > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > [TABLE] > > > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > [TABLE] > > > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > [TABLE] > > > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > [TABLE] > > > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > --  
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > > You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> > To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, > > send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> > To post to this group, send email to > > [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> > For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.  
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > --  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>. >
> 
> > --  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>. >
> 



