+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2011-09-24, 08:15:51 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/Hr4_-gYg8SQ)]]



WAVES 2011- Conference on Varna, Jati and Kula

  

On July 31, 2011, WAVES concluded a well-attended three-day conference on Varna,Jati and Kula (Caste) that featured prominent scholars worldwide.

  

The Resolutions below have been adopted by the WAVES Jati / Varna / Kula Conference after thoroughdeliberations by the participants, consisting of spiritual leaders, scholars and other experts, both at theconference venue and afterwards via follow-up discussions. This represents one key document in the multistage process envisaged by the WAVES Jati / Varna / Kula Conference of deliberatons and discussions onthis sensitive and complex topic. This document is not meant to be a definitive statement of a policy

position, but rather a framework for developing further productive discussions on this important subjectwithin the Hindu community.

  

Guidance on the practices of Dharma is the province of acharyas in the Hindu tradition, and in that light, we note that this is not a prescriptive or binding document for the Hindu community, nor is it any kind offinal word on this subject. Rather, it is a set of principles and issues we believe should be carefullyconsidered when the topic of jati / varna / kula is addressed, particularly in a political or acdemic setting.

  

Conference Resolutions

  

Attendees deliberated and decided upon the following resolutions as essential to the fair portrayal ofHinduism & related institutions:

  

\(1\)  The word “caste” cannot be conflated with the indigenous Indic jati / varna / kula system. “Caste”derives from the Portuguese word “casta” and describes something distinct from the jati / varna / kulasystem, which is a complex and ancient socioeconomic ordering system that developed in variousmanifestations within Indian society over thousands of years. The European concept of “caste” is notan accurate term to describe this indigenous Indian system. 

  

\(2\)   Jati / varna / kula cannot be understood outside the context of Dharma, the ethical system thatunderpins Hinduism / Sanatana Dharma.
Various dharmas are applicable to individuals at differentstages of their life, at different stages of their spiritual development, and taking into account thevariables of time, place and circumstance.
Dharma is meant to harmonize the spiritual, physical andpsychological well being of the individual, as well as the needs and concerns of the family, the societyand the larger cosmos. Accordingly, Varnashrama Dharma is one of the elements of Dharma that

systemizes the practices of the individual, the family, and the society at large in order to promoteindividual and social harmony, fulfillment and well-being. It provides for social mobility whileembracing diversity, emphasizing Duties over Rights, the equitable distribution of powers amongstdifferent sections of society, and harmonious
co-existence as opposed to hyper-competition and asurvival of the fittest mentality, among other values.

  

\(3\)  Within Sanatana Dharma, jati / varna / kula has been a fundamental aspect used to adapt Dharmicpractices to individuals and groups based on their personality makeup. It is an integral part of thesocial, spiritual, psychological and metaphysical ordering of human beings within the Hindu tradition,inextricably linked with the Indic
frameworks of karma, dharma, gunas and doshas.  The jati / varna/kula is determined by a number of factors namely birth, clan, quality, conduct, spiritual knowledge andprofession. It is not determined by birth alone as perceived in certain quarters. Across the Vedicliterature, and across the history, which factor has been considered more important has depended on thecontext. Different factors have gained importance in different contexts. This diversity amongstsampradayas / paramparas is a hallmark of the Santana Dharma tradition, which eschews homogenizinginstitutionalization and such diversity should be embraced and promoted. 

  

\(4\)  The original system of jati / varna has been corrupted and distorted in practice over the course ofistory, primarily due to the destructive influence of colonialism and systemic destruction of traditionalinstitutions of Dharma over many centuries. This should always be kept in mind when analyzing Hindusociety of today, barely 60 years after independence.

  

\(5\)   When representatives of Hinduism describe jati / varna, they must clearly convey these points.Trying to define jati / varna in Western terms or pigeon holing of these complex ideas intoincompatible Western frameworks like human rights, secular humanism, etc. precludes a fair andaccurate portrayal of Hinduism on its own terms, and should be resisted strongly. 

  

\(6\)   Varna/Jati/Kula had by and large remained bedrock of socio-political, economic, and spiritualadvancement of people in India, up until foreign powers invaded, occupied, and exploited the country.Traditional values and practices of enlightened system of Varna/Jati/Kula need to be asserted througheducation and governance to not only eradicate any corrupted practices but also to promote strongprogressive and harmonious features of the system through socio-political and economic steps for thebenefit of people at large. 

  

\(7\)   While there may be many differing views and policies on the applicability of jati / varna in themodern age, and each such view has a legitimate place under the umbrella of Dharma, Hindus mustobserve certain guidelines when discussing the topic of jati / varna in our roles as Hindu advocacyorganizations or as representatives of Dharma, given the political dangers and sensitivities involved.  In particular:

  

a\.   Varnashrama system is inclusive in nature and promotes the well-being of every individual. Itis built on foundations of human qualities such as kindness, forgiveness, tolerance, truthfulness,etc. Therefore, we firmly oppose any discriminatory treatment, atrocity and denial of civil rightsmeted out to anybody, in general. 

  

b\.   We resolve not to accept conflation of caste with jati / varna.

  

c\.   We resolve to fight against jati / varna being denigrated as a human rights issue or an issue ofracial or ethnic discrimination. 

  

We resolve that the observance of Varnashrama Dharma is a matter to be determined by the varioussampradayas / paramparas within Hindu society and it is not appropriate to prescribe any single method ofconduct or observance for all of Hindu society, which is antithetical to the Dharmic way.

  

<http://www.wavesinternational.net/Uploaded/News/WAVES%202011%20Conference%20resolutionsb1399822-1cd2-4d10-af8b-5c51cc9dad0d.pdf>

  

Kalyanaraman

<https://sites.google.com/site/indianoceancommunity1/>[  
](http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.com/)[http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.com](http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.com/)

<http://tinyurl.com/3w6ojj6> (Indus Script Cipher)  

<http://tinyurl.com/4xguuoh> (Rastram: Flipkart in India)

  

