+++
title = "001 Arun"

+++
[[Arun	2010-10-15, 12:02:22 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/CZnpINb37pI)]]



I mostly agree with the book. I had read most of the puranas at age of  
12. My chart of places got some revision by book of Mrs. Savitri  
saxena while I was writing commentary on Siddhanta-darpana in 1996. In  
no text of Vedas, purana or Itihasa (Mahabharata, Ramayana) it is  
written that it excludes any place beyond present boundary of India.  
Obviously, ancient writers were not aware that there will be partition  
of India. There were always links with outside world as stated in  
Digvijaya section of Arjuna in north direction in Mahabharata. Valmiki  
Ramayana, Kishkindha kanda tells about places in all directions. Names  
of many have been lost. Many names keep changing in course of time.  
Indonesia has been called Shunda island. Even now, it is divided into  
greater and lesser Shunda (or sunda) groups. If we look at the map of  
Indonesia it looks as extension of south east Asia in shape of Shunda  
(trunk of elephant). There are many ancient and present names based on  
shape in map. There are parallel names in India and neighbourhood in  
all directions. Pallava were kings of south Pandya state as well as of  
Persia. Kanya-kumari and virgin Mary has same meaning-they may not be  
copy of other-just parallel concepts.  
There is a peculiar description in Kishkindha kanda (40/54,64) that  
Brahma had constructed a Dvara (gate) at end of east direction. I may  
not be abused for alleged patriotism, but some place has to be  
reference zero longitude, as Greenwich is at present. If we assume  
Ujjain to be ancient reference, then the largest Pyramid in Mexico  
falls at 180 degree east of Ujjain. It is not patriotism at either  
place. It means that geographical references were not only linked, but  
accurate survey had been done in past it can not be done by survey of  
India or of Mexico alone. In middle ages no body had even gone to  
Mexico or Newzealand. Even Aryabhata and Surya siddhanta have given  
references to 4 cardinal points. All puranas have indicated world as 4  
petals of a Lotus which indicates 4 references at 90 degree intervals.  
Even if some body had strayed away to Mexico from Japan or Sindbad to  
Newzealand, or visit by air in present days, we can not know  
difference in longitude without accurate survey. Latitude was known in  
all parts all the time, but longitude could be known in modern era  
only in 1582-10 years before journey of Columbus. That needs accurate  
measure of time and not hate for calender considered as bad sign of  
patriotism. Measurement of time in all ages has been by calender only  
and for that only these had been started only for measurement of  
time. Ignorance of any calender or basic mathematics should not be a  
ground for hating any calender and linked with patriotism. Most of  
basic measurements need astronomical survey and are not limited to a  
country. No measurement within a single country can measure distance  
of even moon and NASA has to maintain at least 5 observatories in  
different parts of globe-Arun  

î—“

