+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2011-09-27, 11:17:08 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/lj3sDJ1SeKM)]]



[http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.com/2011/09/meluhha-epigraphia-indus-language.html](http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.com/2011/09/meluhha-epigraphia-indus-language.html)Meluhhacorpora: Indus language, script: Portal updated Sept. 27, 2011

[Identification of Mujavant, locus of Rigvedic soma - S. Kalyanaraman (2011)](http://www.docstoc.com/docs/96601715/Identification-of-Mujavant-locus-of-Rigvedic-soma---S-Kalyanaraman-(2011))****

Soma-haoma, \*sauma ? somnakay ! samanom !

> Decipherment of Soma and lexeme corpora of ancient Indian languages

In a remarkable analytical[monograph](http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m2267/is_3_68/ai_80310009/), Frits Staal (2001, How a psychoactive substance becomes a ritual: the case of Soma, Social Research, Fall 2001), identifies*Mujavat*mentioned in the Rgveda as the source of soma. He notes: “Introducing Doniger O'Flaherty's account of earlier theories, Wasson wrote that the lesson to be drawn "about the futility of much scholarship is humbling" (1968: 92). According to Brough (1971: 332; 1996: 367), the discussion "has latterly been in the doldrums." In 2001, I cannot but agree with these distinguished scientists and feel that we might do well to start all over again. A depressing conclusion, but I am happy to report that there is something new, not on the identity of Soma but on its location. It amply supports the Vedas' repeated assertion that Soma grows high in the mountains.The Best Soma. We have seen in the ritual dialogue that the chief Nambudiri priest asks the Soma merchant: "Is it from Mount Mujavat?" and the merchant replies: "It is from Mount Mujavat." Mujavat is the name of the mountain from which, according to Rigveda 10.34.1 and other early sources, the best Soma came. Where was it located? All we know is that Mujavat is the name of a mountain. The -vat suffix is a common possessive and the name means: "having muja-" or perhaps: "inhabited by the Muja tribe." The element muja is not Indo-European. Michael Witzel considered several possible etymologies in 1980(104-5 nn.16-7). According to one, muj- or its relative munj- may be preserved in the name of the Munjan people who live north of the Hindu Kush in the Kotcha Valley. There are also possible cognates in Burushaski, the language of Hunza. More recently, Witzel (1999: 345, 363) has suggested Muztagh Ata, a colossal mountain (24,386 ft.) close to the sources of the Oxus and Yarkand-Tarim Rivers. Tagh and ata are common Uighur words for "mountain" and "father" and the name means "Muz Mount Father." There are at least two other mountains carrying the name Muztagh and of which Muztagh Ata may be called the father because it is higher. The important point of Witzel's linguistic equation is that muz- is easily related to Vedic muj-. Mount Muztagh Ata, now on the border of Tajikistan and China's Xinjiang, is beyond the northeast frontier of northeast Afghanistan, the area through which Indo-Aryan speakers trekked. Anyone who has seen that part of the world on a map recalls the Wakhan corridor, the longish promontory that we could call a peninsula--like Baja California--if Afghanistan were a continent surrounded by sea. If we take the modern frontier seriously, Muztagh Ata is just beyond it. If we, more realistically, regard that corridor as a recent creation, we must say that Mustagh Ata can be reached by following it for a little over 200 miles. True, "a little" is not so little at 15,000 ft., but we are talking about tough mountaineering people and the watershed here is far lower than the axial range of the Hindu Kush, an important geographical and geopolitical fact first emphasized by Lord Curzon, later Viceroy of India, in his still useful and readable monograph The Pamirs and the Source of the Oxus (1896: 40). In our present context, the most important fact is that Muztagh Ata is the mountain that is located close to the source of both the Oxus and Tarim Rivers. The Tarim or Yarkand River flows, with many tributaries and smaller streams and streamlets, through the full west-east breadth of the Tarim Basin. That basin has recently come into the news because of the discovery of numerous so-called mummies (really dessicated corpses), with tattooed skins and clothes surviving in excellent condition and often accompanied by little bags containing Ephedra. These mummies do not look like the Egyptian paradigm, "wizened and eviscerated pharaohs wrapped in yards of dusty gauze" (Mallory and Mair, 2000: 8). Because of the extraordinary dryness, the openness of some tombs that were well aerated, and the fact that the dead probably died in midsummer so that the corpses quickly lost fluids and dried, they are so well preserved that they seem to be merely asleep. The colors of their attire is striking. Victor Mair's Ur-David wears knee-high socks of matted wool fibers in the bright rainbow colors of the gay flag. The earliest of these discoveries date from approximately 2000 B.C. and the latest from the second or third century A.D. (Mallory and Mair, 2000). I shall not reopen the Pandora box of Ephedra. The species contained in the little bags was identified as Ephedra sinica, the Chinese variety. It does not affect the Soma problem because we know already that Ephedra use is ubiquitous. The newsworthy feature of these corpses is that their physical appearance and DNA analysis demonstrate that they belonged to people who have been called by various terms: European, Europoid, or Caucasian. Corpses found after the third century A.D. are increasingly Mongoloid and Chinese. It has been widely assumed that the language spoken by these mummies before they were mummies was Indo-European. If that is so, their language must have been Indo-Iranian or an early form of Tocharian--the easternmost Indo-European language family…Many mysteries and questions about Soma remain and cannot be solved by a single individual. We need teamwork between experts on psychoactive substances and human physiology, Vedic scholars, botanists familiar with high mountains, geographers, historians, chemists, pharmacologists and others. My contribution has been ritual but I hope that some readers will take up the identity of Soma in earnest.”  
  
Tocharian is acknowledged to be a satem group IE language. If Tocharian was spoken in Mt. Mujavant (Muztagh Ata), the mleccha-speakers were *dasyu*, *mleccha-vācas*, who like *ārya vācas* were also *dasyu*. They brought*soma*impregnated within*añcu*‘iron’for Rigvedic people to process it. This*añcu*is metaphorically referred to by Valmiki in the context of*suryāmśu*and*ayah-jālāni*‘net of iron’ which was smashed by the falcon. Gayatri was the falcon who fetched*soma*.  
  
A background is provided by a comparison of myths from Rigveda and the Ancient Near East, in the context of *soma*…

Read on…<http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.com/2011/09/decipherment-of-soma-and-ancient-indo.html>



Kalyanaraman

<https://sites.google.com/site/indianoceancommunity1/>[  
](http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.com/)[http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.com](http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.com/)

<http://tinyurl.com/3w6ojj6>(Indus Script Cipher)  

<http://tinyurl.com/4xguuoh>(Rastram: Flipkart in India)



