+++
title = "000 rniyengar"

+++
[[rniyengar	2011-03-10, 13:25:45 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/AH3L0Ily_cg)]]



Some interesting discussions are happening in BVP about AIT. I present  
my case:  
  
The mainstream western (-ized) indologists still uphold Aryan  
immigration (previously called- Invasion) Theory to have happened  
around 1500 BC. Traditional Sanskrit scholars within India are  
generally indifferent to this topic except in private groups, where  
also the reaction is usually emotional without much substance. If  
really AIT did happen we may just accept it and rest peacefully... But  
it is based on flimsy grounds. That IE languages are internally  
connected in some fashion is acceptable because this is verifiable  
statistically. But this can not constitute proof of AIT. At present  
AIT acceptance is based on linguistic arguments. However, as pointed  
out by many, linguistics is an imperfect science based on data  
collection of differing quality. This method has assumed importance  
and strength because  
  
a) Large number of people have contributed to this line of thinking  
for over 100 years.  
b) Influential Sanskrit scholars within India in 19th Cent accepted  
this theory.  
c) Arguments against are very few and not understandable by the common  
people who easily compare Sanskrit and European words to see the link  
for themselves.  
  
Westerners rightly understood that the Rigveda and other Vedic  
literature constitute the most ancient literature not only of India  
but of Europe also. They have investigated the texts thread bare, but  
in their own way and arrived at results pleasing to themselves. If  
some of us feel this to be wrong and absurd, it is our duty to study  
the Vedic literature to present what we think as correct, but with  
arguments and evidences that others can verify. Yes, this is easily  
said than done! But this is the Rishi Rna which gets carried on for  
ever. Perhaps many in this forum agree broadly with the above view.  
Difference comes in about the methods adopted. As I see after Sayana’s  
work nothing greatly scholarly has happened in Vedic studies. Well,  
one may mention about Dayananda’s work which is monumental. But  
personally I feel the latter has had more cultural and social impact  
rather than contributing to understand AIT and such other issues.  
  
An important line of investigation that Sanskrit scholars in India  
have ignored is Astronomy. What I have found is majority of Hindus  
including scholars mistake Jyotisha for Astrology and at best talk of  
MBh and Ramayana in terms of Rashis and astrological yogas (largely  
following Nilakantha’s commentary on MBh, made popular by the Gita  
Press) forgetting that sky pictures can be deciphered with the help of  
astronomical calculations. If the statements are unambiguous, one can  
find possible past dates for them. This work has to be done for the  
Vedic literature also, starting from the RV. One may counter me saying  
that SB Dikshit, Tilak and PC Sengupta have already done this. Yes,  
they have shown the way but have not said the last word, nor have  
investigated the RV for its astronomy. Research is never ending! If  
“Krittikas not slipping from the East” is questioned for its dating as  
3000BC one has to argue why the reference is to the equinoctial day  
and not just the eastern direction. More arguments for the dating the  
Vedic literature have to be put forth. If AIT supporters question the  
winter solstice with Dhanishtha in 1400 BC, we have to understand why  
they raise such issues. There is no way to verify today which star  
Vedanga Jyotisha meant as Vaasava. Bookwise it is Dhanishtah, but one  
has to identify it in the sky. Some star in constellation Delphini is  
the best answer. This makes the date approximate by plus or minus 300  
years.  
  
Now, coming to my approach to the issue, having seen the arguments for  
and against dating RV in the book by N.N.Law, (also original papers of  
Whitney, Keith, Winternitz against dates ancient than 1500 BC for RV)  
I studied the statements about the Pole Star (Dhruva) in Puranic and  
Vedic literature to the best of my abilities. The present Dhruva  
(alpha-U.Minor) was not the Pole star during the best period of  
Siddhantic astronomy, but they used the name “dhruvaka” for the polar  
latitude. My question to scholars on how did the ancients coin this  
word, (i.e vyutpatti, nirvachana etc) yielded dead ends. So I decided  
to study the Dhruva-legend in the PuraNas and the Vedas.  
  
There was a fixed star at the north in a constellation called  
“S’is’umaara” which had 14 stars at the end of which was the ancient  
Dhruva. This is mentioned in the BrahmaNDa and the Vishnu purana quite  
accurately and less so in the Bhaagavata. This was originally known as  
“Abhaya”. This star is presently called alpha-Draconis or Thuban. This  
was the Pole Star during 3200BC-2400BC. Some excerpts of my work are  
given below.  
  
  
Tai.AraNyaka has a long mantra on this “S’is’umaara”.  
  
….dharmo mūrdhānam brahmottarāhanuh yajño’dharā visnurhrdayam  
samvathsarah prajananam aśvinau pūrvapādāvatrirmadhyam  
mitrāvarunāvaparapādau agnih pucchasya prathamam kāndam tata  
indrastatah prajāpatirabhayam caturtham sa vā esa divyaśśākvaraś-  
śiśumārah …….dhruvastvamasi dhruvasya ksitamasi tvam bhūtānām  
adhipatirasi tvam bhūtānām śrestho’si tvām bhūtānyupaparyāvartante……  
śiśukumārāya namah\|\| (TA. II.19.1)  
  
In another accented text Ekāgni-kānda also belonging to the Krsna-  
yajurveda, hymns of the marriage ritual are given. The hymn for  
observing and addressing Dhruva is  
  
dhruvaksitih dhruvayonih dhruvamasi dhruvatasthitam \| tvam  
naksatrānām methyasi sa mām pāhi prtanyatah \|\| (I.9)  
  
  
By back computations or using modern software such as Stellarium,  
which includes effects of precession, nutation and proper motion, we  
get the date of α-Draconis being the Pole Star as 3200-2400 BCE. In  
this long period, the declination of this star varied from 87- 56’ to  
87-36’, reaching 89-53’ in 2830 BCE. The naming of the Vedic star  
Abhaya (No-fear) as Dhruva (Fixed, Certain) in the Śiśumāra should  
have happened during this period, which gives a broad relative  
chronology (Fig.2). By 1900 BCE the separation of Dhruva from NCP  
increased to 5 degrees and the circumpolar nature of the star would  
have been evident to observers of the night sky. Thus, a conservative  
lower estimate for the North Star to have acquired the name Dhruva  
would be c 2400 BCE.  
  
My work appears as a paper this month in the Indian Journal of History  
of Science. The text is available for any one to read at  
  
<http://www.scribd.com/doc/20298010/Dhruva-the-Ancient-Vedic-Hindu-Pole-Star>  
  
I request critics to post their comments on the work. If my arguments  
are acceptable as logical, RV should be older than 3000 BC and AIT is  
a myth; that is MITHYAA. But if Dhruva of Tai.A was the Pole star then  
Mitra-VaruNa, Samvatsara etc were also stars in the S'is'umaara.  
Linguists/indologists/Vaidikas will have a job on hand to tell us  
where in RV the above names should be taken as stars and where else as  
invisible Devatas. Also they have to help us to decide whether in RV  
1.116 S'is'umara (absurdly translated as gangetic porpoise) was yoked  
along with a bull to draw a cart on the ground for Divodaasa the  
servant-of-the-sky.  
  
Regards  
RN Iyengar  

