+++
title = "064 R. N. iyengar"

+++
[[R. N. iyengar	2021-03-25, 14:43:14 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/cmkVuykdBMM)]]



> 
> > 
> > 
> > The initial question raised by Prof. Iyengar was how this verse could > be construed. He later clarified that the revolving of the Seven > Rishis around the Pole Star was not what he was questioning, but > rather whether brahmarāśi could be equated with dhruva. I did not see > anyone post from commentators who made this equation, only from the > two commentaries initially posted by Prof. Iyengar that did not make > this equation. Therefore, after a week, I typed in the Goldmans’ note > showing some commentators who did not make this equation and some > commentators who did make this equation. I thought this would be a > helpful contribution to the point in question.  
> > 
> > 
> > 

  

Thanks to David ji for reading my posts and responding with useful information. My primary interest in the CC:NN publication was to know how neo-orientalism in epic chronology was negated in the 2nd Chapter. At one point I was elated to see my name inthe august & ethereal company of Mmp. PV Kane and CV Vaidya cited perhaps as proponents of neo-orientalism in epic studies. This imaginedimportance was short lived since my paper cited in the bibliography was about eclipses and planets and had nothing to do with the stars of MBh. So much for the due diligence that has gone in the preparation, review and publication of the Book Chapter. Nevertheless, the Ramayana verse kept me interested because of my long standing interest in**Brahmarashi**. Sanskrit words carry multiple meanings and hence the context becomes too important to see whether from the sky descriptions reliable actionable data can be derived for archaeoastronomical work. Havingspent considerable time searching texts for Brahmarashi, I wanted to draw the scholars into a discussion so as to highlight the importance of primary texts and their
translation and interpretation in chronology studies. After extracting astral configuration with ancient names, their equivalents in modern
catalogues have to be established unambiguously. Then only the computer generated planetarium images are meaningful, otherwise the NN exercise is rhetoric GIGO. Sanskrit Univs can chalk out an important activity for their students in this area.

  

The notes of Goldman are quite interesting. I had not known about (Nagesha Bhatta 18th cent.) equating Brahmarashi with Dhruva. This does not solve the identity of Brahmarashi in the Epic, forarchaeoastronomicalwork. All seem to accept Brahmarashi as a celestial entity but assign varying identities different from Abhijit, which has been taken to be Vega by SB Dikshit and several others based on the Suryasiddhanta. The regent deity of Abhijit is said to be Brahma; and hence the star is called ब्राह्मनक्षत्रं but not ब्रह्मराशि :,
which has to be a group. Again going by the Suryasiddhanta, the two stars Brahamahrdaya(modern Capella) and nearby Prajaapati(=Brahma) are identified in the constellation Aurige, closer to Rohini, which is called PrAjApatyam. Star Hutabhuk (=agni, Beta-tauri) is also identified to be nearby. Quite interestingly Atharva Veda Parishishta, (a text neglected in Vedic studies) in the *graha-sangraha* chapter says

ब्रह्मराशेस्तु ते पुत्रा ग्रहाः संतानसंस्थिताः\| सञ्चरन्तिनभः सर्वम् उत्पन्ने पुरुषक्षये \|\| 52.7.1\|\| This reads like a meteorite shower or some transient objects radiating from ब्रह्मराशि.

Is it possible this region Aurige-Taurus away from Rohini-Mrgashira was called ब्रह्मराशि ? In this case, ब्रह्मराशिर्विशुद्धश्च makes abundant sense, without further explanation. संतान is commonly taken in the senseof being 'continuous'. However MW gives "a particular mythical weapon" as a meaning in the Ramayana. In the Kumbakonam edition I could not find this. Scholars may like to comment.  

  

Regards

RNI

  

  

> 
> > 

