+++
title = "000 Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma"

+++
[[Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma	2010-07-13, 18:48:18 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/VuXP5tYqsRc)]]



In the name of "Vedic Sciences/Veda Vijnana" what substandard material/draft  
can enter the net world - here is a sample!  
Amply borrowed from modern sciences ( the terms which have only working validity  
because their authors have the freedom to withdraw, modify or delete them in the light  
or darkness of new findings) the following cut-pasted piece swings mud on Vedas and  
invites mud from the camp of modern science.  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
  
  

## THE FRONTIERS of VEDA VIGNANA

The greatest challenge of the millennium is the disciplined preparation of the youth for enlightened living and leadership

The knowledge leadership demands an integration of the emerging technology with the Ancient Wisdom,Tuning ourselves for an intutive journey leads us towards innovative value education programs in schools and colleges.

**xxxx** is a knowledge leadership initiative in organizing Veda Vijanan Anveshini Sabha at the Global,National and Regional levels, Veda Vasantha camps and other interactive learning leadership Transactions for the Corporate and non corporate knowledge based organizations.

**xxxx** brings out publications in Print and Multimedia on vedic sciences

**xxxx** has its Presence in more than 150 schools & colleges of India through lectures,demonstrations & Interactive learning transactions on various topics of Vedic Sciences

### ENERGY FIELDS AND THE HUMAN BODY

A Frame work for discussing the world as the energy phenomenon can be thought of. As one begins to model the phenomenon, one is able to explore Bio feedback, Biotechnology ,paraphysics, plants ,polygraphs, parapsychology,Extrasensory perception , Intution ,the psychic healing , Mediation research, the Yogi in the lab, ECG alphafeedback, the neurosciences, life,death and Antimatter,Synergy and social pollutin, Global Consciousness and Mysterious phenomenon of spontaniety and excellence ,beyond excellence & so on.

Our Purpose on Earth may remain obscure, but the road ahead is clear.

Veda Vijanana is an exploartive journey into your inner being.

It is going to be a TRANSFORMATIONAL LEADERSHIP JOURNEY.

Education is transformation not just information.Education for WORLD PEACE,HAPPINESS and PROSPERITY. We are at the point of evolution of our collective and individual awareness. We can choose to no oonger be enslaved by darkness.Our destiny can be CERTAIN  

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

Highlights in yellow are mine.  

Neither Veda nor Science; but when both are added one gets Vedic Science and it can be anything!  
  
Scholars are requested to define, explain and justify the term "Vedic science" either in traditional terms or in modern terms  
or synthesizing both, if possible.  
  
**प्रणाम:  
**--  
Aangirasa/Dr.S.Ramakrishna Sharma. M.A.,Ph.D.(Eng.Lit.),Ph.D.(Sanskrit.).  

