+++
title = "007 rniyengar"

+++
[[rniyengar	2011-12-24, 20:08:50 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/z3y8eOkB6No)]]



Dear Dr.Singh:  
Since you have specifically asked for a personal interpretation I am  
giving my ‘Laukika’ explanation of the Vedic legend.  
I consider the Puranic version of the story to be a Myth (mithyA), but  
the roots of this Brahma-Sarasvati myth can be traced as a legend to  
the BrahmaNas and further back to the Rigveda. Legends are not false,  
they may be exaggerations but they contain some valuable information  
in them. For such stories to gain importance there should have been  
some real physical observation and memorable experience for the  
community. The text you were looking for is perhaps the following:  
Śatapatha Brāhmana (I.7.4.1-4) : prajāpatirha svām  
duhitaramabhidadhyau \| divam vosasam vā mithunyena yāsyāmiti tām  
sambabhūva \|\| tadvai devānāmāga āsa \| ya itthaṃ svāṃ duhitaramasmākaṃ  
svasāraṃ karotīti \|\| te ha devā ūcuḥ \| yo 'yaṃ devaḥ paśūnāmīṣṭe  
'tisaṃdhaṃ vā ayaṃ carati ya itthaṃ svāṃ duhitaramasmākaṃ svasāraṃ  
karoti vidhyemamiti taṃ rudro 'bhyāyatya vivyādha tasya sāmi retaḥ  
pracaskanda tathennūnaṃ tadāsa\|\|  
  
Here already the 'daughter' is either Us.as or the dawn, in other  
words there is a doubt since the original tradition should have been  
more ancient. The above hymn mentions Rudra and the word ‘vivyaadha’.  
The incident was celestial and eventually something fell down on earth  
from the sky. (Linked with agni-maaruta shastra)  
In the Ai. Br as already posted by another member, ‘Bhutapati’ was  
asked to punish PP. This is a form of ‘celestial agni’ the two others  
being ‘bhupati and bhuvanapati’. These are the elder brothers of  
‘SaucIka agni’ of the Saucika hymns of RV 10.51,52,53 and RV 3.9.  
The other Br.texts, PVB and Jai.Br. describe the PP legend in greater  
detail. Rudra shooting an arrow at PP; the ‘maanus.a’ lake getting  
formed in the ‘Himavat’ by the dropping seed of PP. Gods setting the  
lake aflame etc. The ‘S’rayantiiya’ Saaman is associated with this  
episode.  
As per Vedic Index of M&K “The transference of the legend of Prajapati  
to the sky is no doubt secondary, caused by the obvious similarity of  
the constellation in question to the idea of an archer.” I do not  
agree with this explanation. The primary event was in the sky. There  
are three parts in the legend. The first is PP- Ushas. The second is  
Rudra sending an arrow and third an object falling on ground.  
  
I consider the three to have developed one after another based on real  
events in a broad sequence, nevertheless recognized by the Vedic  
seers. Vedas, MBh and PuraNa contain long texts devoted to heavenly  
bodies coming/falling on earth. The archetype is Skanda-kaartikeya.  
  
The PP-Ushas ur-legend is from the RV. \[Moving agni (dhumaketu) in  
the sky and Maruts the children of Rudra falling on earth is in RV\].  
Br. texts have amplified this for ritualistic purposes as time passed  
on, with further celestial allegories or events.  
The basic legend in my opinion is in the RV which describes the  
covering of the Sun for a long time, which should have led to a  
climate change with disastrous consequences. There are too many hymns  
and legends about this event for one to ignore the absence of sunlight  
as a poetic license to describe the dark night of the human soul or as  
the prolonged winter at northern latitudes.  
In RV (1.51.4) Indra is said to have established sun after destroying  
Vrtra. In RV (1.86) maruts are prayed to remove the darkness and  
create the light for which people were longing. Hymn (1.175) is about  
Indra stealing Sun’s wheel, which is an euphemism for the absence of  
normally expected rise, movement and setting of the sun. Hymns (1.183  
& 184) refer to the ending of a period of darkness. In the second book  
hymn (2.15) is about Indra crushing the vehicle of Usas, which is a  
metaphor for a continuous dawn like condition without a visible sun.  
Indra had to be supplicated by men who struggled to get sunlight  
(2.19). Indra found the sun dissolving in darkness near the cow’s-foot  
(sūryam viveda tamasi ksayantam \| 3.39.5). In (4.16.9) Indra is  
implored in the battle for sunlight. Indra is said to have hurt Usas,  
daughter of the sky, near the River Vipāśa (4.30.9-11), which refers  
to absence of day break. This event is recounted in a slightly  
different form in the tenth book in hymn (10.138). In hymn (5.31.11)  
when the night was ending, sun’s wheel is said to have gone backwards.  
This is again a reference to absence of day break and nonexistence of  
observable sun’s movement across the sky. Even though the temporal  
ordering of the various events is left in doubt, the metaphoric texts  
lead one to perceive anomalous climatic conditions preceded by  
uniquely spectacular celestial events. In (6.7.5) vaiśvānara is  
praised to have freed and set the sun in the sky for all to see. A  
similar statement occurs in (10.156.4) mentioning that agni has made  
Sun mount the sky. Several hymns to Indra are prayers for sunlight or  
laudation after sunlight was restored. In (6.17.5) Indra gives  
splendour to Sun, which had been lost. In RV (6.39) the reference is  
to a light called Indu which brightened the worlds that were not  
shining. Reference to the widespread abnormal darkness appears in one  
form or other in several places of RV, with its all pervasive  
cosmological, philosophical, mystical and religious influence spread  
all through the later Vedic texts \[Tai.Samh. (1-5-7) : citrāvaso  
svasti te pāramśīyetyāha rātrirvai citrāvasuravyustyai vā etasyai  
purā brāhmanā abhāisurvyustimevāvarundhe \|\| This is about the  
Citrāvasu hymn. It is said (Ref: SaayaNa) that in ancient times the  
sages feared that they may not see the dawn again i.e. sun may not  
rise at all. By the Citrāvasu hymn they won the dawn.\]  
  
Some hymns of RV praise Indra for having given light to sun as in  
(8.3.6). A few others (8.12.30, 8.89.7) laud Indra for having fixed  
sun in the sky. In the hymn (10.37) dedicated to Sun, the general  
prayer is; May we never suffer from want of sun’s presence, which is  
very similar to the verse (2.33.1) from an earlier strata of RV.  
One of the most nuanced ‘aalankaarika’ descriptions of the sun being  
covered up is in the seventh book,  
tānīdahāni bahulānyāsan yā prācīnamuditā sūryasya \|yatah pari jāra  
ivācarantyuso dadrkse na punaryatīva \|\| (7.76.3)  
"Many days were over before the old sun rose again. In this period  
Usas was seen behaving like a maiden with her lover."  
The above is a plain statement that once, there was a long gap between  
dawn and sun rise. It also implies that the Vedic seers considered  
this period to be Usas or dawn only. Since nothing is said about the  
nights, I conjecture that they could recognize the passage of time as  
implied in the key phrase ahāni bahulāni. The immediate next verse  
(7.76.4) mentions about the ancestors of the seer rejoicing after  
discovering the hidden light of sun. This incident and the above verse  
are the basis for all later legends associating Prajāpati (Creator)  
with Usas (his own creation figuratively called daughter) as in the  
Vedic Brāhmana literature.  
Kind regards  
RN Iyengar  
  
  
On Dec 14, 9:46pm, Bhagwan Singh \<[bhagwan...@yahoo.co.in]()\> wrote:  
\> NamaskarI had read in some Samhitaa that Brahma infatuated as he was tried to seduce Sarasvati, while the latter kept running in different quarters. Whichever quarter she tried to escape Brahma developed a face to look at her. Ultimately she ran towards sky and he grew a fifth head upwards. The gods were angry and they approached the Rudra who in his fury cut his fifth head and that is why one of the epithets of Rudra is vivyaadha. I read it some forty years back. I thought that I shall be able to retrace it from the books in my collection, but failed. Have you are any other scholar of our learned team come across this legend? Please locate it and also give your own interpretation of this composite myth.BS

