+++
title = "004 V Subrahmanian"

+++
[[V Subrahmanian	2012-07-20, 15:52:02 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/_vZUtDIN3Gw)]]



Just for convenience sake I am reproducing from an old post of mine in the Advaitin discussion forum a few months ago on the topic of 'anupalabdhi': Since that forum does not take devanagari, I had to present the sanskrit portions in transliterated form:  
  
  
Here is a relevant portion from the Vedanta ParibhAShaa of DharmarAja Adhvarin on the topic of  
'anupalabdhi.':  
  
//anupalabdheryogyatA cha tarkitapratiyogisattvaprasanjitapratiyogikatvam.//  
  
\[the fitness for a thing to be the subject matter of anupalabdhi is that it  
should satisfy these conditions: 1.There has to be an enquiry to decide on the  
claim that a particular object is present in the locus. 2. it should be an  
object that is fit to be present in that locus. \]  
  
The commentary 'maNiprabhA' to this portion of the 'shikhAmaNi's gloss on the VP  
clarifies:  
  
//yogyAnupalabdhiyogyatvam = pratyakShayogya-ghatTAdi-viShayasya yA anupalabdhiH  
tasyA yogyatvam ...tathaa cha dharmAdyanupalabdherna grahaNam iti bhAvaH. //  
  
The essence of the above is: 1. The object whose non-apprehension is had has to  
be something that is available for pratykSha pramANa. 2. Hence the non-existence  
of dharma/adharma (in Atman) (which are incapable of being apprehended by  
pratyaksha pramANa) are not the subject of the operation of anupalabdhi pramANa.  
  
From the above it is clear that 1.Not only that the object in question is to be  
a known one (that is one should possess the knowledge about the object  
(pratiyogin), but more important than that 2. the object in question is that  
which is capable of being apprehended by pratyakSha. In order to make this  
definition very tight the VP itself separates the candidates such as  
dharma-adharma which are not within the ken of prtyaksha as falling outside the  
purview of the operation of the anupalabdhi pramANa. That is, even though Atman  
is devoid of dharma/adharma since these are not knowable through pratyakSha  
their negation in Atman is not an instance of anupalabdhi.  
  
Most pertinently, in tune with the above discourse, the VP itself gives an  
analogy:  
  
/tathA hi spheetaalokavati bhUtale yadi ghaTaH syAt tadA ghaTopalambhaH syAt iti  
aapAdanasambhavAt taadRShabhUtale ghaTAbhAvo anupalabdhigamyaH. andhakAre tu  
tAdRshaapAdana-asambhavAt na anupalabdhigamyatA. /  
  
The above means: In a well lit place (floor) if a pot were present then the pot  
could be apprehended (known through pratyakSha). Since this possibility is  
there, in such a (well lit) floor the absence of a pot is an instance of  
anupalabdhi pramANa. That is the knowledge, 'there is no pot here, on this  
floor' is a perfect case of anupalabdhijnAnam. On the other hand, in darkness as  
it is impossible to think of the possibility of a present pot to be known  
(through prtyakSha), the absence of a pot (in that locus which is not lit, that  
is dark), is not a case of anupalabdhi. That is, no one can say 'there is no  
pot here in this dark place' based on the anupalabdhi pramANa.  
  
The above shows that for anupalabdhi to operate, the object has to be decisively  
a pratyakSha-knowable one. In the face of this requirement as per the VP it is  
impossible to say that the case of vandhyAputra or hare's horn which are clearly  
not pratyakSha-knowable ones falls within the scope of anupalabdhi pramANa.  
  
More explanations may be given by others please.  
  
subrahmanian.v  
  

2012/7/20 Hnbhat B.R. \<[hnbh...@gmail.com]()\>  





