+++
title = "000 navaratna rajaramnavaratna"

+++
[[navaratna rajaramnavaratna	2010-10-16, 14:59:39 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/u5_kh2JRNrg)]]



*October 16, 2010*  



 Without a doubt Koenraad Elst'sconrtbution to the Hindu claim to Ramjanmabhumi is greater than anyone else's. Hindus and Hindu organizations should recognize it by giving him a suitable award-- not just a pompous sounding name, but a substantial reward. But Hindus would rather throw money (and themselves) at the likes of 'Swami' Nityananda than encourage sound scholarship. Then they complain their history and culture are being misrepresented!



N.S. Rajaram

Koernaad Elst is one of the very few who has articulated the case of  
Shri Ram Janmabhoomi in English is a consistent manner. It is necessary  
for the eminent historians, and others, to respond to the points made  
here, instead of repeating the points which have already been disproved,  
particularly in the recent judgement.  
  
Namaste  
Ashok Chowgule  
  
The Eminent Historians  
Koenraad Elst  
October 6, 2010  
<http://www.outlookindia.com/article.aspx?267377>  
  
A group of them raised the stakes and turned a local communal deal into  
a clash of civilizations, a life-and-death matter on which the survival  
of the greatest treasure in the universe depended, viz. secularism.  
  
In 1858, the Virgin Mary appeared to young Bernadette Soubirous in  
Lourdes, France. Before long, Lourdes became the most important  
pilgrimage site for Roman Catholics and other Mary worshippers. France  
prided itself on being a secular state, in some phases (esp. 1905-40)  
even aggressively secular, yet it acknowledged and protected Lourdes as  
a place of pilgrimage. Not many French officials actually believe in the  
apparition, but that is not the point. The believers are human beings,  
fellow citizens, and out of respect for them does the state respect and  
protect their pilgrimage.  
  
For essentially the same reason, the mere fact that the Rama Janmabhumi  
(Rama's birthplace) site in Ayodhya is well-established as a sacred site  
for Hindu pilgrimage, is reason enough to protect its functioning as a  
Hindu sacred site, complete with proper Hindu temple architecture.  
Ayodhya doesn't have this status in any other religion, though ancient  
Buddhism accepted Rama as an earlier incarnation of the Buddha. The site  
most certainly doesn't have such a status in Islam, which imposed a  
mosque on it, the Babri Masjid (ostensibly built in 1528, closed by  
court order after riots in 1935, surreptitiously turned into a Hindu  
temple accessible only to a priest in 1949, opened for unrestricted  
Hindu use in 1986, and demolished by Hindu militants in 1992). So, the  
sensible and secular thing to do, even for those sceptical of every  
religious belief involved, is to leave the site to the Hindus. The  
well-attested fact that Hindus kept going there even when a mosque was  
standing, even under Muslim rule, is helpful to know in order to gauge  
its religious importance; but is not strictly of any importance in the  
present. For respecting its Hindu character, it is sufficient that the  
site has this sacred status today.  
  
Secular PM Rajiv Gandhi had understood this, and from the court-ordered  
opening of the locks on the mosque-used-as-temple in 1986, he was  
manoeuvring towards an arrangement leaving the contentious site to the  
Hindus in exchange for some other goodies (starting with the Shah Bano  
amendment and the Satanic Verses ban) for the Muslim leadership. Call it  
Congress culture or horse-trading, but it would have been practical and  
saved everyone a lot of trouble.  
  
That is when a group of "eminent historians" started raising the stakes  
and turning this local communal deal into a clash of civilizations, a  
life-and-death matter on which the survival of the greatest treasure in  
the universe depended, viz. secularism. Secure in (or drunk with) their  
hegemonic position, they didn't limit themselves to denying to the  
Hindus the right of rebuilding their demolished temple, say: "A medieval  
demolition doesn't justify a counter-demolition today." Instead, they  
went so far as to deny the well-established fact that the mosque had  
been built in forcible replacement of a Rama temple.  
  
Note, incidentally, that the temple demolition, a very ordinary event in  
Islamic history, was not even the worst of it: as a stab to the heart of  
Hindu sensibilities, the Babri mosque stood imposed on a particularly  
sacred site. Just as for Hindus, the site itself was far more important  
than the building on it, for Islamic iconoclasts the imposition of a  
mosque on such an exceptional site was a greater victory over infidelism  
than yet another forcible replacement of a heathen temple with a mosque.  
Though the historians' and archaeologists' ensuing research into the  
Ayodhya temple demolition has been most interesting, it was strictly  
speaking superfluous, for the sacred status venerated by most Hindus and  
purposely violated by some Muslims accrues to the site itself rather  
than to the architecture on it. The implication for the present  
situation is that even if Muslims refuse to believe that the mosque had  
been built in forcible replacement of a temple, they nonetheless know of  
the site's unique status for Hindus even without a temple. So, they  
should be able to understand that any Muslim claim to the site, even by  
non-violent means such as litigation, amounts to an act of anti-Hindu  
aggression. Muslims often complain of being stereotyped as fanatical and  
aggressive, but here they have an excellent opportunity to earn everyone's  
goodwill by abandoning their inappropriate claim to a site that is  
sacred to others but not to themselves.  
  
After the eminent historian's media offensive against the historical  
evidence, the political class, though intimidated, didn't give in  
altogether but subtly pursued its own idea of a reasonable solution. In  
late 1990, Chandra Shekhar's minority government, supported and largely  
teleguided by opposition leader Rajiv Gandhi, invited the Vishva Hindu  
Parishad (VHP) and the Babri Masjid Action Committee (BMAC) to mandate  
some selected scholars for a discussion of the historical evidence. The  
politicians had clearly expected that the debate would bring out the  
evidence and silence the deniers for good. And that is what happened, or  
at least the first half. Decisive evidence was indeed presented, but it  
failed to discourage the deniers.  
  
The VHP-employed team presented the already known documentary and  
archaeological evidence and dug up quite a few new documents confirming  
the temple demolition (including four that Muslim institutions had tried  
to conceal or tamper with). The BMAC-employed team quit the discussions  
but brought out a booklet later, trumpeted as the final deathblow of the  
temple demolition "myth". In fact, it turned out to be limited to an  
attempt at whittling down the evidential impact of a selected few of the  
pro-temple documents and holding forth on generalities of politicized  
history without proving how any of that could neutralize this particular  
evidence. It contained not a single (even attempted) reference to a  
piece of actual evidence proving an alternative scenario or positively  
refuting the established scenario. I have given a full account earlier  
in my book Ayodhya, the Case against the Temple (2002).  
  
Unfortunately, no amount of evidence could make the deniers mend their  
ways. Though defeated on contents, the "eminent historians" became only  
more insistent in denying the evidence. They especially excelled in  
blackening and slandering those few scholars who publicly stood by the  
evidence, not even sparing the towering archaeologist BB Lal. Overnight,  
what had been the consensus in Muslim, Hindu and European sources, was  
turned into a "claim" by "Hindu extremists". Thus, the eminent  
historians managed to intimate a Dutch scholar who had earlier  
contributed even more elements to the already large pile of evidence for  
the temple demolition into backtracking. Most spectacularly, they  
managed to get the entire international media and the vast majority of  
India-related academics who ever voiced an opinion on the matter, into  
toeing their line. These dimly-informed India-watchers too started  
intoning the no-temple mantra and slandering the dissidents, to their  
faces or behind their backs, as "liars", "BJP prostitutes", and what  
not. In Western academe, dozens chose to toe this party-line of  
disregarding the evidence and denying the obvious, viz. that the Babri  
Masjid (along with the Kaaba in Mecca, the Mezquita in Cordoba, the  
Ummayad mosque in Damascus, the Aya Sophia in Istambul, the  
Quwwatu'l-Islam in Delhi, etc.) was one of the numerous ancient mosques  
built on, or with materials from, purposely desecrated or demolished  
non-Muslim places of worship.  
  
Until the Babri Masjid demolition by Hindu activists on 6 December 1992,  
Congress PM Narasimha Rao was clearly pursuing the same plan of a  
bloodless hand-over of the site to the Hindus in exchange for some  
concessions to the Muslims. The Hindu activists who performed the  
demolition were angry with the leaders of their own Bharatiya Janata  
Party (BJP) for seemingly abandoning the Ayodhya campaign after winning  
the 1991 elections with it, but perhaps the leaders had genuinely been  
clever in adjusting their Ayodhya strategy to their insiders' perception  
of a deal planned by the PM. After the demolition, Rao milked it for its  
anti-BJP nuisance value and gave out some pro-mosque signals; but a  
closer look at his actual policies shows that he stayed on course. His  
Government requested the Supreme Court to offer an opinion on the  
historical background of the Ayodhya dispute, knowing fully well from  
the outcome of the scholars' debate that an informed opinion could only  
favour the old consensus (now known as the "Hindu claim"). In normal  
circumstances, it is not a court's business to pronounce on matters of  
history, but then whom else could you trust to give a fair opinion when  
the professional historians were being so brazenly partisan?  
  
The Supreme Court sent the matter on, or back, to the Allahabad High  
Court, which, after sitting on the Ayodhya case since 1950, at long last  
got serious about finding out the true story. It ordered a  
ground-penetrating radar search and the most thorough excavations. In  
this effort, carried out in 2003, the Archeological Survey of India  
(ASI) employed a large number of Muslims in order to preempt the  
predictable allegation of acting as a Hindu nationalist front. The  
findings confirmed those of the excavations in the 1950s, 1970s and  
1992: a very large Hindu religious building stood at the site before the  
Babri Masjid. The Allahabad High Court has now accepted these findings  
by India's apex archaeological body. But not everyone is willing to  
abide by the verdict.  
  
In particular, the eminent historians are up in arms. In a guest column  
in The Hindu (2 Oct. 2010: The verdict on Ayodhya, a historian's  
opinion), Prof. Romila Thapar claims that the ASI findings had been  
"disputed". Oh well, it is true that some of her school had thought up  
the most hilariously contrived objections, which I held against the  
light in my booklet Ayodhya, the Finale: Science vs. Secularism in the  
Excavations Debate. Thus, it was said that the presence of pillar-bases  
doesn't imply that pillars were built on it; you see, some people plant  
pillar bases here and there once in a while, without any ulterior motive  
of putting them to some good use. And it was alleged that the finding of  
some animal bones in one layer precludes the existence of a temple (and  
somehow annuls the tangible testimony of the vast foundation complex and  
the numerous religious artefacts); and more such hare-brained reasoning.  
The picture emerging from all this clutching at straws was clear enough:  
there is no such thing as a refutation of the overwhelming ASI evidence,  
just as there was no refutation of the archaeological and documentary  
evidence presented earlier.  
  
Today, I feel sorry for the eminent historians. They have identified  
very publicly with the denial of the Ayodhya evidence. While politically  
expedient, and while going unchallenged in the academically most  
consequential forums for twenty years, that position has now been  
officially declared false. It suddenly dawns on them that they have tied  
their names to an enterprise unlikely to earn them glory in the long  
run. We may now expect frantic attempts to intimidate the Supreme Court  
into annulling the Allahabad verdict, starting with the ongoing  
signature campaign against the learned Judges' finding; and possibly it  
will succeed. But it is unlikely that future generations, unburdened  
with the presently prevailing power equation that made this history  
denial profitable, will play along and keep on disregarding the massive  
body of historical evidence. With the Ayodhya verdict, the eminent  
historians are catching a glimpse of what they will look like when they  
stand before Allah's throne on Judgment Day.  
  
----------------------------------------------------------  
Koenraad Elst, a Belgian Indologist, is the author, inter alia of  
Ayodhya: The Case Against the Temple and Ayodhya, The Finale  
  

\_\_.\_,\_.\_\_\_

[Reply to sender]() \| [Reply to group]() \| [Reply via web post](http://groups.yahoo.com/group/bharatiyaexpertsforum/post;_ylc=X3oDMTJxNDE3bmV1BF9TAzk3MzU5NzE0BGdycElkAzgwNzU0MDYEZ3Jwc3BJZAMxNzA1MDQzNjI4BG1zZ0lkAzM4Njg3BHNlYwNmdHIEc2xrA3JwbHkEc3RpbWUDMTI4NzE5ODQ4OA--?act=reply&messageNum=38687) \| [Start a New Topic](http://groups.yahoo.com/group/bharatiyaexpertsforum/post;_ylc=X3oDMTJlNjl1bHU4BF9TAzk3MzU5NzE0BGdycElkAzgwNzU0MDYEZ3Jwc3BJZAMxNzA1MDQzNjI4BHNlYwNmdHIEc2xrA250cGMEc3RpbWUDMTI4NzE5ODQ4OA--)

[Messages in this topic](http://groups.yahoo.com/group/bharatiyaexpertsforum/message/38687;_ylc=X3oDMTM2aDFyNTU1BF9TAzk3MzU5NzE0BGdycElkAzgwNzU0MDYEZ3Jwc3BJZAMxNzA1MDQzNjI4BG1zZ0lkAzM4Njg3BHNlYwNmdHIEc2xrA3Z0cGMEc3RpbWUDMTI4NzE5ODQ4OAR0cGNJZAMzODY4Nw--) (1)

Recent Activity:

[Visit Your Group](http://groups.yahoo.com/group/bharatiyaexpertsforum;_ylc=X3oDMTJldGVjOWkyBF9TAzk3MzU5NzE0BGdycElkAzgwNzU0MDYEZ3Jwc3BJZAMxNzA1MDQzNjI4BHNlYwN2dGwEc2xrA3ZnaHAEc3RpbWUDMTI4NzE5ODQ4OA--)

Bharatiya Experts’ Forum (BEF)  
Moderator: G. Anil Kumar  
  
Generally, we have free-to-post policy within the group, with some exceptions. Defamation, recrimination, threatening, nudity and other depictions of similar nature are not acceptable in BEF.  
  
Since we have free-to-post policy within the group, authors alone are responsible for what they post and neither the moderator nor the owners of BEF can take any responsibility for what its members say in their postings.  
  

Switch to: [Text-Only](), [Daily Digest]() • [Unsubscribe]() • [Terms of Use](http://docs.yahoo.com/info/terms/)

.

  

\_\_,\_.\_,\_\_\_

  

