+++
title = "000 Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma"

+++
[[Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma	2010-05-28, 05:19:55 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/ij4PruqUsQI)]]



हरि: ॐ  
नमस्ते।  
**"**शरीरमाद्यं खलु धर्मसाधनम्**"**  
Take care.  
  

## Cancer Risks from Cell Phones are Well Established

-   Effects on Gene and Protein Expression (Transcriptomic and Proteomic
    Research) -   Genotoxic Effects – RFR and ELF DNA Damage -   Stress Response (Stress Proteins) -   Effects on Immune Function -   Effects on Neurology and Behavior -   Brain Tumors, Acoustic Neuromas, and childhood cancers like leukemia

Cell phones will one day be to the 21st century [what cigarettes were to the 20th](http://emf.mercola.com/sites/emf/archive/2010/02/04/cell-phones-are-the-cigarettes-of-the-21st-century.aspx), and you don’t want to be among the last to learn the truth.

Australia has already seen an increase in pediatric brain cancers of 21 percent in just one decade. This is consistent with studies showing a 40 percent brain tumor increase across the board in Europe and the U.K. over the last 20 years.

Brain cancer has also now surpassed leukemia as the number one cancer killer in children … what else are we waiting for to take action?

I suggest you don’t wait, and instead begin to minimize your exposure minimize exposure by heeding the following advice:

-   **Reduce your overall cell phone use:** Turn your cell phone off
    more often. Reserve it for emergencies or important matters. As long
    as your cell phone is on, it emits radiation intermittently, even
    when you are not actually making a call. -   **[Children Should Not Use Cell
    Phones](http://articles.mercola.com/sites/articles/archive/2008/02/07/why-your-cell-phone-can-hurt-your-children.aspx):**
    Barring a life-threatening emergency, children should not use a cell
    phone, or a wireless device of any type. Children are far more
    vulnerable to cell phone radiation than adults because of their
    thinner skull bones. -   **Use a land line at home and at work:** Although more and more
    people are switching to using cell phones as their exclusive phone
    contact, it is a dangerous trend and you can choose to opt out of
    the madness. -   **Reduce or eliminate your use of other wireless devices:** You
    would be wise to cut down your use of these devices. Just as with
    cell phones, it is important to ask yourself whether or not you
    really need to use them every single time. -   **If you must use a portable home phone, use the older kind that
    operates at 900 MHz.** They are no safer during calls, but at least
    many of them do not broadcast constantly even when no call is being
    made. Alternatively you can use a regular cordless phone if your
    home is large enough and there are at least three rooms between the
    base station and where you sleep and spend most of the time in the
    day.

As a general rule of thumb, you can pretty much be sure your portable phone is a problem if the technology is DECT, or digitally enhanced cordless technology.

-   **Use your cell phone only where reception is good:** The weaker the
    reception, the more power your phone must use to transmit, and the
    more power it uses, the more radiation it emits, and the deeper the
    dangerous radio waves penetrate into your body. Ideally, you should
    only use your phone with full bars and good reception. -   **Don’t assume one cell phone is safer than another:** Please
    understand that despite assurances, there’s still [no such thing as
    a “safe” cell
    phone](http://articles.mercola.com/sites/articles/archive/2009/11/05/Top-Safe-Cell-Phones-That-Arent-Safe.aspx). -   **Keep your cell phone away from your body when it’s on:** The most
    dangerous place to be, in terms of radiation exposure, is within
    about six inches of the emitting antenna. You do not want any part
    of your body within that area (so do not carry your cell phone on
    your belt, either). -   **Use safer headset technology:** Wired headsets will certainly
    allow you to keep the cell phone farther away from your body.
    However, if a wired headset is not well-shielded -- and most of them
    are not -- the wire itself acts as an antenna attracting ambient
    information carrying radio waves and transmitting radiation directly
    to your brain.

Make sure that the wire used to transmit the signal to your ear is shielded.

The best kind of headset to use is a combination shielded wire and air-tube headset. These operate like a stethoscope, transmitting the information to your head as an actual sound wave; although there are wires that still must be shielded, there is no wire that goes all the way up to your head.

I believe this issue is so important I’ve created an entire web site dedicated to EMF education and information. Feel free to bookmark [EMF.mercola.com](http://emf.mercola.com/) and check back on occasion for the latest news and updates.

**"ಸಾಧನ ಶರೀರವಿದು ನೀ ದಯದಿ ಕೊಟ್ಟದ್ದು..."**

**\*Always use only the left ear to receive the call.  
**

**प्रणाम:**  
  
--  
Aangirasa/Dr.S.Ramakrishna Sharma. M.A.,Ph.D.(Eng.Lit.),Ph.D.(Sanskrit.).  

