+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-10-27, 09:44:12 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/upnCWgeHgrQ)]]



kharva as one of nine navanidhi and Indian *sprachbund* (language union)

  

Navanidhi of Kubera are often listed as: padma, mahapadma, sankha, makara, kacchapa, mukunda, nanda, nila and kharva.



What does kharva mean?

  

In the context of 'wealth' (semant.), the word may have cognates in Indian languages:



karvata\[ karva*t*a \] n. market-place.(Skt.lex.)கர்வம்² karvam,n. \<kharva. 1. A billion;இலட்சங்கோடி2. One of the nine treasures ofKubēra (Tamil lex.)खार्वाkhārvāखार्वाThe Tretā age or second Yuga of the world.(Apte Skt. lex.)

*Tu.*ajirdakarbavery hard iron (DEDR 192)*Tu.*karisoot, charcoal;kariyablack;karṅkastate of being burnt or singed;karṅkāḍunito burn(*tr.*); karñcunito be burned to cinders;karñcāvunito cause to burn to cinders;kardůblack;karbairon;karvāvunito burn the down of a fowl by holding it over the fire (DEDR 1278).



H.*kaṛbī*,*karbī*f. ʻ tubular stalk or culm of a plant, esp. of millet ʼ (→ P.*karb*m.); M.*kaḍbā*m. ʻ the culm of millet ʼ. (CDIAL
2653)Mar.karvāa bit of sugarcane.(DEDR 1288)

  

**kārú -- ,***°uka*-- m. ʻ artisan ʼ Mn. \[√kr̥1\] Pa.*kāru*-- ,*°uka*-- m., Pk.*kāru*-- m.; A. B.*kāru*ʻ artist ʼ; Or.*kāru*ʻ artisan, servant ʼ,*kāruā*ʻ expert, deft ʼ; G.*kāru*m. ʻ artisan ʼ; Si.***karuvā***ʻ artist ʼ (ES 22 \<*kāraka*-- ).(CDIAL 3066)



खर्व(-र्ब)*a.*\[खर्व्-अच्\]1Mutilated, crippled, imperfect; Yv. Ts.2.5.1.7.-2Dwarfish, low, short in stature.-र्वः, -र्वम्A large number (1,,,).-3N. of one of the treasures of Kubera.(Apte. Skt. Lex.)



Kubera is also described as a dwarf.



kharvá(RV.*ákharva*-- ) ʻ mutilated, imperfect ʼ TS., ʻ dwarfish ʼ lex.,*khárvaka*-- AV.,*khalvāṭa*-- ʻ bald ʼ Bhartr̥. \[ʻ Defective ʼ word, cf. \*karva-- beside Av.*kaurva*-- ʻ bald ʼ (ʻ short ʼ H. W. Bailey BSOS vi 598 ff.), Pers.*karve*ʻ decayed teeth ʼ ← Sogd.*krw*-- W. B. Henning BSOS x 96. EWA i 304 rejects non -- IE. origin, but if they are connected with*kárvati*,*khárvati*,*gárvati*ʻ is haughty ʼ Dhātup., there is the characteristic interchange of initial in such words.\]Pk.*khavva*-- ʻ hunchbacked, dwarfish ʼ, m. ʻ left hand ʼ,*khava*-- m.; Kt.*kawə*ʻ left -- hand ʼ, Kal. urt.*khāvi*, Kho.*koh*, Sh. gil.*khăbŭ*, gur.*khā*, f.*khaī*, koh.*khăbīnṷ*(Xdákṣiṇa-- ); S.*khaḇo*, L.*khabbā*, (Ju.)*khaḇḇā*, P.*khabbā*→ H. -- Ext. with --*la*-- : Ash.*kawál*ʻ left -- hand ʼ, Kal.*khāˊulī*; -- with --*ṭa*-- : Wg.*kawṛīˊ*, Bashg.*kō̃war*, Paš.*xōṛi*f., Shum.*xauṛi*f., Kal. rumb.*khäˊuŕi*, K.*khōworu*; S.*khāḇaṛu*ʻ left -- handed ʼ (\< \**khārvaṭa*-- ?); \<-> with --*āṭa*-- (cf.*khalvāṭa*-- ): Or.*khabāḍibā*ʻ to do a thing clumsily ʼ; -- with --*ra*-- : Or.*khabirā*ʻ limping ʼ. -- Kaf. forms with*k*-- listed above perh. \< \*karva-- . -- Si.*kurā*ʻ dwarf ʼ Geiger ES 26, poss. \< \**kharuva*-- .\*kharvāntaAddenda:kharvá -- :A.*khābṭā*ʻ dwarfish ʼ AFD 214. (CDIAL 3832)

  

In the cultural context of Hindu civilization continuum, kharva chauth celebrated on the chaturdashi of Kartika month (9 days before Deepavali) is relatable to the celebration through vrata including fasting, of wealth creating artisan-husband:karuvā 'artist'.



kalyan

******

