+++
title = "009 Arun"

+++
[[Arun	2010-08-13, 07:30:38 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/bpat9DOh7Kg)]]



Heaven and hell are relative terms. 'Iha' or 'Idam' = this created  
universe. This can be whole visble universe or this earth planet only  
as per context. 'Tat', 'Adas" etc mean the invisible creator. Detached  
creator or unimaginable is'Nirvishesha brahma' or 'Parama-shiva' as  
per Shaiva-darshana. 'Ishvara' is creator form-in this sense, it has  
been used in Gita (18/61)-Ishvarah sarva bhutanam Hriddeshe'rjuna  
tishthati. In one sense, the whole universe beyond earth is dyu (sky).  
Mundakopanishad tells about 4 lokas-earth = Bhu, planetary system or a  
part = Bhuvar, Svar =solar system, mahar = everything beyond solar  
system. In general, this 'mahar' has been divided into 4 lokas-making  
a total of 7-Mahar = sphere around sun with diameter equal to width of  
spiral arm of galaxy here, Janah = galaxy, Tapah =visible universe ,  
Satya loka = infinite space, called Purusha or Svayambhu mandala also.  
Measures of these are given in Vedic and puranic literature in 6  
different units. For that, my article-'units of length and time' may  
be seen on [www.scribd.com/Arunupadhyay](http://www.scribd.com/Arunupadhyay). All the outer lokas have been  
called-Urdhva or Urdhva-vishala in Sankhya philosophy (See-sankhya  
book in Hindi on above website-chapter 3). Heaven and hell in outer  
space have 2 concepts. Kathopanishat (1/3/1) tells zones of Chhaya  
(shadow) and 'Atapa' (brightness). Accordingly, bright part of Saturn  
is called 'Dharma' (Heaven) and dark part is called 'Yama' (hell). The  
ring around satun has been called Vaitarani river whose 3 zones are  
named as Pilumati, Udanvati and Pradyau (paradise ?) in Atharva-veda  
(18/1/54, 59, and 18/2/7, 47, 48). Solar system is called Rodasi  
having fluctuations, krandasi is galaxy having accumulation of all  
light of 100 billion suns, and sanyati is whole universe which is  
always static. Complete solar system is Indra (radiation ) svarga. It  
is surrounded by Ap or Varuna-svarga of Galaxy. As Janah loka, it is  
called 'Jannat' in Koran. Solar system is divided into 2,3, or 6 zones  
(1) 2 zones are Brihaspati =Planetary zone, Indra = outer zone mostly  
with radiation. (3) 3 zones are 3 steps of Vishnu within solar system.  
Parama-pada of Vishnu is last limit where sun rays can reach or seen  
as a point-that is galaxy. Zone within earth orbit is Rudra or excess  
heat upto 100 sun-diameters (Shata yojane ha va Adityah Itastapati-  
kaushitaki Brahmana). Excess heat may be called hell-fire. Zone upto  
1000 diameter (earth to saturn) is 'Shiva' =calm, called Rashmi zone  
alao-Sahasram haita Adityasya rashmayah. Zone upto 1 lakh sun diameter  
is called 'Shivatara' and beyond that upto 157 lakh diameters is  
called 'Shivatama'. Beyond solar system in Mahar-loka is 'Sadashiva'.  
It is mixed with 'Ambhah' of galaxy-so it is called 'Samba-Sadashiva'  
also. (3) Six zones are called 'Vashatkara' starting with earth at 3,  
9, 15, 21, 27, 33 aharganas-Trimshat dhama Vi-rajati, vak Patangaya  
Dhiyate. Prati vastoh Aha dyubhih. (Rig veda 10/189/3). Earth has 3  
zones within it, beyond that, field of sun is upto 30 dhamas, where  
its light is more (than galaxy background). Each zone is measured in  
"Ahar'  
Then there are grades of Deva-svargas, centered around saturn at 21  
ahargana. That is from 17 (near earth) to 25 (Balakhilyas =plutonic  
bodies at 60 A.U.) aharganas. These are 9 Deva-svargas. Zone near  
earth has mixed effect of all three-earth (agni), moon and sun-called  
eyes of Shiva (Mundaka etc). Since effects are not clearly separated,  
it is called 'nachiketa-svarga'. Chiketa = distinct.  
On earth surface also, there are classification of 7 lokas in 3 lokas  
of Indra also-called Russia, China and India. Each is divided into 3  
each -making a total of 7 with 2 common at boundaries. These are- (1)  
Bhu =south of Vindhyas, (2) Bhuvar-Between Vindhyas and Himalaya.  
Dilip has been called Madhyama-lokapal in Raghuvamsha 2/46. Even now,  
persons of plain region of Nepal are called madhesa (madhya-desha).  
(3) Himalaya is Svarga called Devatatma. Its 3 zones are called Tri-  
vishtapa. catchment of Sindhu river system is called Vishnu-vitapa,  
catchment of Ganga system is Shiva-vitapa and catchment of Brahmaputra  
system is Brahma-vitapa. (4) China is Mahar loka. Brahma had called  
these people as mahan (Han tribe), so it is mahar loka as per puranas.  
(5) Janah loka is Mangolia. In space, mahar loka is final place of  
souls (Vishnu purana 2/7 etc). In Arabic, Mukul =soul. (6) Tapah loka  
=Siberia. It is Tapas =steppees. (7) satya loka = polar circle around  
north pole.  
Remaining world was divided into 7 'Tala'- (1) Atala =Europe (Italy),  
(2) Talatala =north Africa, (3) Atalantaka =Atlantice, (4)Patala  
=north America, (5) Rasatala =south America (with large water body of  
Amazon. (6) Sutala =South Africa, (7) Vitala = Australia -Agni dvipa  
in Agni kona from India. Antarctica was called yama-dvipa, Yama is  
lord of south, yama = twin also as it is double land. Its nearest land  
is also double called Yamakoti dvipa (Newzealand) having Yama-koti-  
pattana at 90 degree east of Ujjain (Surya siddhanta etc).  
In warm regions, higher zone of Himalayas is Svarga and undersea land  
near Dead-sea is Hell. It was place of Yama-Vaivasvata of  
Kathopanishat called Jamashed in Zenda-Avesta. In cold regions, plain  
land is Sverge (local name of Sweden) and hills are Norge (Norway).  
Europe also is divided into 3 lokas-Bhu =close to Bhumadhya-sagara,  
south of that was Mura (Morocco) killed by Krishna. Middle is Bhuvar  
(Bavarian plains of central Europe) and north is Svarga (Sweden).  
South America zones are named as puras of iron, silver, gold. Brazil =  
iron (literal meaning), Argentina =silver (Argentum in Greek) and  
south part or Antarctica may be Gold-called place of Ananta. Details  
may be seen in Geography of Purans on the website.-Arun  

  
On 11 अग, 17:11, ముక్కు శ్రీరాఘవకిరణ్ శర్మ \<[msrki...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  
\> नमस्सर्वेभ्यो विद्वद्भ्यः  
\>  
\> One of our friends asked this question:  
\>  
\> "When it is said that every man has to reap the fruits, whether good or bad,  

\> of the \*karma\* performed in his previous life, why should there be hell or  

\> heaven to make people experience the \*punya phala\* or \*paapa phala\*?"  
\>  



