+++
title = "011 VKG"

+++
[[VKG	2010-08-14, 05:41:57 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/bpat9DOh7Kg)]]



Dear Raghava!

I was keenly observing the suggestions from othe members.

Let me debate to find Simple Answer to your Query:

1.अत्युत्कटैः पुण्यपापै रिहैव फल मश्नुते।  
2. पूर्व जन्म कृतं पापं व्याधिरूपेण पीडतम्।  
3. पुण्यचितो लोकः क्षीयते।

These are the oft quoted references.  
One Logical Inference to the concept of Hell and Heaven. (It is a  
Carrot and Stick Idiom)  
1. Paapa Bheeti (Fearing the sin and its repercussions) is the most  
vital part to keep the society on the track of Dharma. Lack of it,  
results in moral degeneration. Hence, the Hell (and its ruler - Yama)  
is a threatening deterrent to wrong doing.

2\. Similarly, Meritorious Deeds attract prizes in the form of Swarga.  
Every action will have equivalent and adquate effect. Similarly, the  
extent of Swarga Vaasa is proporitionate to your Sat Karma.

Then Your first Question:  
If every deed (good or bad) yields result in this birth or the other;  
why do you need Hell or Heaven?

The Simple Reason:

To endure the comprehensive Luxuries or Punishments, which cannot be  
visibly experienced by a human body, a meta physical phenomenon is  
required. That is Swarga or Naraka, where this Sooksha Sareera alone  
travels, assumes the Bhoga Sareera of that world to endure the fruits  
of the deeds in this world.

1\. Luxuries or the Difficulties, described in any religious texts are  
beyond comprehension, with this mortal body. This is more relevant to  
Hell, as this body cannot withstand the harsh punishments. Hence, the  
Puraana Vaakyas describe that the Sooksha Sareera only travels to the  
Hell to undergo sufferings. (That Samskaara of Pain would be inflicted  
on the perpetrator and another Bhoga Sareera, a garb is assumed to  
under the the punishment.)

2\. Similarly this gross body (Sthoola) cannot travel to experience a  
celestial comfort, for which another Bhoga Sareera is assumed to have  
been given to each of us.

For this reason only, every faith has a description about the  
aftermath of this life in the concepts of Hell and Heaven. Thus, the  
concept of Naraka and Swarga keep the humanities on the track of  
Dharma/ Righteousness.

Epilogue (According to the Adwaita thought):

If there is nothing else, other than the omni present,omni potent,  
Limitless Para Brahman, everything else is just a mirage. Whatever  
appears to be real is not so, compared to the experiences of the  
dream. In that sense, neither this world, nor the others are real.

Only One - Sarvam Brahma.  
Regards  
VKG  
Vamshi Krishna Ghanapathi

On Aug 13, 4:40pm, ముక్కు శ్రీరాఘవకిరణ్ శర్మ \<[msrki...@gmail.com]()\>  
wrote:



