+++
title = "010 B.N. Patnaik"

+++
[[B.N. Patnaik	2009-03-22, 00:07:44 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/XLrqparc1CY)]]



  
Dear Sir,  
  
I had already given one such: free will and choice. And probably something  
like "essential human nature": what cognitive endowments do we have as  
humans? Yet another: ethical issues. And then as far as questions of  
"language use" (as against language structure)are concerned, there is very  
little scientifically acceptable knowledge that we have today.  
  
Now, one might say, okay, these and other issues might be outside of the  
scope of science today, but that does not mean that in principle these are  
outside the scope of science. A different science might emerge which would  
address such questions. Such a science might operationalize notions like  
free will and choice in a way that it would be able to handle them. But  
then one would always say that that's a different matter; the  
operationalized notions are not the same as the "original" ones, i.e., the  
ones of which they are operationalizations.  
  
In any case and more importantly, is science today proceeding towards  
dealing with the kinds of problems mentioned above? I do not think so.  
There are other issues which seem to be a good deal more attractive to the  
community. For one example, I believe there are important and interesting  
methodological differences between biological and physical sciences which  
need to be looked into and resolved.  
  
In sum, if one says that in principle nothing can be outside the scope of  
science, then I am not going to disagree, because that would mean I do not  
have sufficient faith in human creativity.  
  
With best regards,  
B.N.Patnaik  



Alternative Email: [bn.pa...@gmail.com]()  



