+++
title = "011 Shrisha Rao"

+++
[[Shrisha Rao	2009-03-23, 05:19:56 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/XLrqparc1CY)]]



2009/3/21 nastikashiromani \<[lokay...@gmail.com]()\>:

\> Dear MR. Patnaik,  
\>  
\> We materialists hold that nothing is outside the domain of scientific  
\> inquiry.

That's a very nice renaissance-like optimism about science solving all  
problems and explaining everything in the world, but it is really a  
dogmatic position -- not something everyone can be persuaded to  
accept. It is also something that does not seem justified given the  
obvious gaps in what science can explain (not just the formation of  
hurricanes, but even the path of a falling leaf). Scientific inquiry  
to date has also sucked big-time in producing certain important  
answers we would all like (e.g., an algorithmic model of  
consciousness, no closer today than a couple of generations ago), so a  
naive faith in it as a source of all answers or a fix for everything  
is hardly persuasive.

Before we get too cocksure about science and sneer at how stupid  
astrology is, etc., we ought to remember that scientific disciplines  
are unfortunately subject to such limitations as well. For instance,  
the whole thing with string theory \[1\] in physics -- no testable  
hypotheses, worse than astrology! Even in mathematics, the queen of  
sciences, it is admitted \[2\] that "truth can be political" -- what  
worse could any junk science do?

\[1\] <http://www.newyorker.com/archive/2006/10/02/061002crat_atlarge>

\[2\] <http://www.experimentalmath.info/news/nathanson.pdf>

\> You must give examples of the things you things are outside it.

Science by itself does not improve the human condition in any measure,  
either for the individual or for society as a whole. For that we need  
ethics, principles, morality, etc., none of which is a science.

Regards,

Shrisha Rao  

