+++
title = "000 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2016-07-02, 02:57:17 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/8OEUECtAyLI)]]



June 30, 2016



Dear BVK Sastry Namaste!



You do not have to refer to books on Sanskrit by foreign authors. Within India many Sanskrit scholars in the past two hundred years have written excellent books on the History of Vedic and Sanskrit-



Example Satyakama Varma, D. D. Mahulkar. See what they are saying about Panini, Kaatyana, Patanjali, Bhatrihari.



Praatishaakyas also throw light on historical development of Sanskrit. There are hundreds of technical words used from thousand years before Panini.



Language is not divine. Devee was adjective to Vaak. Then it was extended to Sanskrit, then to Vedic.



Look at the history of Brihaspati, His pupil Indra, Then another grammarian Bharadvaja. Vedic and Sanskrit was river, it was developing.



Languages are dynamic. They change. The Principle of the Least Efforts was working from thousands years before Yaask, and it is working today.
Thanks. N.R.Joshi



  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: "BVKSastry(Gmail)" \<[sastr...@gmail.com]()\>  
To: \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
Subject: RE: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Re: {भारतीयविद्वत ्परिषत्} Re: Who created GOD ?  
Date: Thu, 30 Jun 2016 19:40:02 -0400  
  

Namaste Bijoy ji



1. Thanks for specific pointing on where \< Pollock and company fail royally!  \>



2. And by extension, the company’s failures royally continues in
their handling of \< Ramayana Translation and Veda-Translation and research, Treating it as ‘Kavya’ of an earlier period than Ramayana>.



3. And ‘Tolerant – Unopposed - Endorsements and Open- Acceptance Promotion of the above failures by Some Traditional Schools in ‘re-imaging the wild-imagination and re-constructing the Future trends of Sanskrit studies in India’ also continues equally royally !



This entire scenario of Sanskrit studies in the last three hundred years needs critical addressing in “ Sanskrit: Poorva-Paksha” using the standards of language set by Panini-Patanjali and Yaska. And surely Bhartruhari, Abhinavagupta, Ananda vardhana, Bhoja .. every one comes in section by section in this review ; including Yudhisthira Meemaamsaka till Pollock.



Are we morally and mentally ready for this self-review and audit undertaking ?



Regards



BVK Sastry





**From:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() \[mailto:[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\] **On Behalf Of** Bijoy Misra  
**Sent:** Thursday, 30 June, 2016 10:29 AM  
**To:** Bharatiya Vidvat parishad  
**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Re: {भारतीयविद्वत ्परिषत्} Re: Who created GOD ?



Dear Sastryji,

We analyzed the topic in our paper to WSC last year. Bhatrhari gives much larger and extremely erudite analysis.

In Sanskrit the word is a concept, expression of a भाव. It is not a वस्तु. The latter is a manifestation.

Thee is a conceptual universe overlapping the material universe. This makes the language beautiful and

cosmological. संज्ञा words also have भाव, which may not be directly obvious because we may not be

applying ourselves to use them. 

This gets more interesting as we translate .काव्य. This is where Pollock and company fail royally! 

Best regards,

BM 



On Thu, Jun 30, 2016 at 9:10 AM, Bvk sastry \<[sastr...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:

  
Namaste Bijoy ji







--  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**Affordable Wireless Plans**  
Set up is easy. Get online in minutes.  
Starting at only $9.95 per month!  
](http://www.netzero.net?refcd=nzmem0216)[www.netzero.net](http://www.netzero.net?refcd=nzmem0216)

