+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-12-31, 17:54:08 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/P0TJayH1HR4)]]



---------- Forwarded message ----------  
From: \<[bharatguptATvsnl.com]()\>  
Date: Fri, Dec 31, 2010 at 5:12 AM  
Subject: Path Braking Lecture on the origin of Aryan culture issue  
To:  
  
  
THE ATTIC TEL: 23746050 [www.theatticdelhi.org](http://www.theatticdelhi.org)  
  
AT THE NATIONAL ARCHIVES, ANNEXE BUILDING, 3RD FLOOR, JANPATH (OPP. IGNCA) AT 6 PM, Jan. 3, 2011  
  
Ancient Civilizations  
  
This Series of 12 lectures on the ancient civilizations of the world will be held at the National Archives over a 12 month period in collaboration with National Archives and UNESCO.  
  
Eminent Indian and foreign scholars will cover aspects of ancient India and the Greek, Roman, Egyptian, Mesopotamian and other ancient cultures.  
  
In the last 20 years many developments have taken place in the study of ancient civilizations. DNA, carbon dating and linguistic as well as reinterpretation of existing evidence by a new generation of scholars have overturned our dearly held beliefs of Aryan invasions and/or immigrations and point to a much older, indigenous civilization than previously thought.  
  
The Vedic Tradition probably influenced Egypt and Mesopotamia, the spread of Buddhism influenced cultural developments in S.E Asia, Tibet, China and Japan. Vedic Sanskrit still influences the Indo European cultures all over the world.

  
This series introduces the views of newer scholars in the field with thought provoking, sometimes revolutionary ideas on our common past.  
  
  
monday 3rd january  
  
6.00 pm Ancient Civilization Series at The National Archives  
  
‘Vedic Civilization and its Spread’ by Dr. Nicholas Kazanas  
  
Civilization is usually thought of as a historical period of a people with increasing wealth and power and expanding influence, with large buildings, artifacts tools and weapons. But it is also an inner condition aiming at spiritual betterment with truth, justice, goodness. The ancient Vedic Tradition influenced many peoples and cultures at different periods from 3000 BCE to our own times both in the East and the West. Sanskrit, religion and philosophical ideas were the means whereby important changes were effected. The inner development or self improvement is already apparent in the Ṛgveda and becomes the backbone of the Vedic Tradition even to our own days through the study and application of principles of Yoga and Vedānta.  
  
  
It is probable that the Vedic Tradition influenced Egypt and Mesopotamia early in the 3rd millennium BCE, as also philosophical and religious teachings in the Near East in the first two centuries CE. Buddhism influenced cultural developments in South-East Asia and Tibet and further on in China and Japan. Philosophy and religion took along with them the study of Sanskrit which influenced the languages of those regions. The language and philosophy of the Veda influences also modern cultures all over the world today.  
  
Nicholas Kazanas was born in the greek island Chios in 1939. He studied English Literature at University College, Economics and Philosophy at the School of Economic Science and Sanskrit at the School of Oriental and African studies - all in London; also post-graduate at SOAS and at Deccan College in Pune. (India)  
  
He taught in London and Athens and since 1980 has been Director of Omilos Meleton Cultural Institute. ([www.omilosmeleton.gr/en/default_en.asp](http://www.omilosmeleton.gr/en/default_en.asp)) In Greece he has published treatises of social, economic and philosophical interest. He is on the Editorial Board of Adyar Library Bulettin (Chennai). He has also produced a three-year course of learning Sanskrit for Greeks.  
  
From 1997 he has turned towards the Vedic Tradition of India and its place in the wider Indo-European culture. This research comprises thorough examination of Indo-European cultures, comparing their philosophical ideas and values, their languages, mythological issues and religions. He has also translated the ten principal Upanishads from the original Sanskrit text into Greek. His latest publications are 'Indoaryan Origins and Other Vedic Issues' and 'Economic Principles in the Vedic Tradition’.  
  
  
  
Bharat Gupt  
Associate Professor, Delhi University,  
Founder member and Trustee  
International Forum for India's Heritage.  
homepage: [www.bharatgupt.net](http://www.bharatgupt.net)  
<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bharat_Gupt>  
  

  

