+++
title = "008 Damodara Dasa"

+++
[[Damodara Dasa	2015-09-11, 14:11:01 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/_lUwBAQcskI)]]



Hare Krishna.  
  
Respected Schoars,  
Even seeing from logical and practical point of view, it is a very  
wrong and utopian conception that there can be a society without wars.  
There will always be elements in the society who cannot be rectified  
to voluntarily follow the norms of the society (that are absolutely  
necessary for a society to function). These elements must be kept in  
check by weapons. Thus sometimes war is inevitable. Vedic literature  
is named zAstra - it comes from zas dhAtu meaning to rule. Thus Veda  
is meant to rule the society (through a king) and one who is not ready  
to be ruled as such need to be ruled by zastra (weapon) another  
derivation of zas dhAtu. Otherwise they will just be disturbing  
elements in the society. Of course in vedic societies (based on  
varnasrama) a lot of accomodations were made trying to avoid war but  
many times it is impossible to do so (especially when the kings become  
corrupt). Mahabharata is one such case.  
  
Bhagavad-gita is not just a philosophical treatise but is very  
practical. So one who is not trained to understand Bhagavad-gita as  
given by Bhagavan (Lord Sri Krsna) Himself and thus it being free of  
any errors, considers it as a work of some person like himself and  
thus try to judge it by his own tiny untrained brain. Sripada  
Sankaracarya and all other great authorities have accepted  
Bhagavad-gita absolutely free from errors and thus they are able to  
get proper understanding of it. If someone accepts it as such then he  
can come to right understanding of it even from the text itself. Its  
direct meaning (mukhya vRtti) is to be taken and indirect meaning  
(lakSaNA vRtti) has a lower priority. So as far as possible  
Bhagavad-gita is to be explained in mukhya vRtti. There are many  
interpretations to fit one's own meaning in text of bhagavad-gita -  
like one author tries to explain that kuruksetra war didn't take place  
by twisting the meaning that battle field means our body, five  
pandavas means five senses, etc. This may satisfy some people but that  
is not the real meaning of the author of the Bhagavad-gita (Sri Krsna  
Himself). If we open Bhagavad-gita for one's own interpretations then  
there is no end to it and there is no meaning to keep Bhagavad-gita in  
center but to just write one's own book. Whenever an author writes a  
book, he has a fixed message and purpose behind it and it is pointless  
to just take some of his words and start explaining one's own way - it  
will never make one reach the author's message.  
  
Message of Bhagavad-gita is clear in Bhagavad-gita itself and Krsna  
has not left it open for anyone's interpretation. It is clarified by  
the author Himself in 9th chapter as well as in the last (18th)  
chapter slokas 64-66 clearly stating that "this is the conclusion of  
my speech." This conclusion is to exclusively surrender unto Him. So  
as far as Bhagavad-gita is concerned this must accepted as conclusion.  
Now as Krsna wants that there must be fight so as to be able to  
establish dharma and root out adharma (Bg 4.7-8) it was Arjuna's duty  
to fight and Arjuna (the best listener of Bhagavad-gita) accepted it  
as such and fought. So on the other side it should not be interpreted  
that because Krsna (God Himself) asked us to fight so it is the only  
message of God and thus today also one who do not take part in war is  
not following Bhagavad-gita. Thus Arjuna clarified in Bg 18.73 that  
'kariSye vacanam tava' - 'I will do what You say, O Acyuta.' He didn't  
say 'I will fight.' So Arjuna fought because it was demanded by Lord  
Krsna and surerndering unto Him means to follow His order.  

  
\>\> I have seen several ones silent on the introductory first and second chapters which means they are not concerned with points like these.  
  

Please read the commentary of A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada on  
Bhagavad-gita (English). He has very nicely discussed this point  
there.  
Why the previous acaryas didn't comment on this? The reason is that  
such misconceptions didn't exist (at least widely) until the british  
rulers tried to explain the message of vedic literature in a way that  
minimizes its credit in the minds of Indians. Another such point that  
was not much discussed for clarification is rasa-lila. There are many  
such topics that need clarification (and that are being used by  
anti-hindus to minimize the value of our vedic heritage) and Swami A.  
C. Bhaktivedanta Prabhupada, being recent acarya in the line of  
spiritual preceptors, has elaborately discussed these points in his  
books.  
  
Thankyou,  
Damodara Das  

î—“

[+91 9737475085](tel:+91%2097374%2075085)  
[www.bvks.com](http://www.bvks.com)  

