+++
title = "002 P.V. NARAYANAN"

+++
[[P.V. NARAYANAN	2016-09-10, 14:19:49 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/lPC8chFRIAw)]]



Dear Prof. Bijoy Misra,

  

Hope, you have gone through H.D. Sankalia's studies on *Rāmāyaṇa*([The Ramayana in Historical Perspective](http://biblio.co.uk/book/ramayana-historical-perspective-sankalia-h-d/d/884660730) etc.) which would be of great help in making your geographical search more effective and fruitful (although some of his observations have to be reviewed today).

  

abhivādaye,

P.V. Narayanan.

  

On Sat, Sep 10, 2016 at 10:20 AM, 'Anil Narayanan' via भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत् \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> > 
> > 
> > Namaste..  
> I am not familiar with any books that deal with geography in Valmiki > Ramayana. But, herewith, sharing a picture of journey of Rama.  
> With pranams,  
> Anil. >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > ------------------------------------------------------------------------ >
> From: [Bijoy Misra]()  
> Sent: ‎09-‎09-‎2016 09:59 PM  
> To: [Bharatiya Vidvat parishad]()  
> Subject: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Geography through Valmiki  
>   
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Friends, >
> 
> >   
> > 
> > I am now at Kiskindha in my Ramayana expedition. >
> 
> > 
> > It is very interesting to learn of Sugriva's knowledge in geography. >
> 
> > 
> > Has anyone done a thesis to carve out a map? I saw the >
> 
> > 
> > following book published in 2014
> > 
> > 
> > ## The Search for Ravana's Lanka (The Geography of Valmiki Ramayana) >
> ## Please advise any opinion if you know of studies.. >
> 
> > 
> > Thank you. >
> 
> > 
> > Bijoy Misra >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > --  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+unsubscribe@googlegroups.com](). >
> 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> >   
> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.  
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > --  
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+unsubscribe@googlegroups.com](). >
> 
> > 



