+++
title = "002 Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)	2014-03-25, 11:20:01 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/luZtSAHyXR4)]]



Namaste



1. The post deliberation below is much more than a \< mere / another translation issue> in the ordinary sense. This is a masked discussion on serious techno-linguistic issues.



 This debate is a \< technical Vocabulary concept mapping \> .



 It is seeking a free solution on the technology challenge of \< Human Language modeling for Computer applications> . i.e .\< Vedanga Vyakarana Shaastra bhashaa /paribhashaa pada –vyutpatti –vyaapti> is the core issue.



2. The translations like \< संज्ञा – definition;परिभाषा – operative;विधि-executive;नियम – restrictive;अतिदेश- extended;अधिकार – header/domain \> come up in programming language modeling debate.

 The translation like \< संज्ञा – technical rules: rules which assign a particular term to a given entity;परिभाषा – interpretive rules: rules which regulate proper interpretation of a given rule or its application;विधि – operation rules: rules which state a given operation to be performed on a given input;नियम – restriction rules: rules which restrict the scope of a given rule ;अतिदेश – extension rules: rules which expand the scope of a given rule, usually by allowing the transfer of certain properties which were otherwise not available;अधिकार – heading rules: rules which introduce a domain of rules sharing a common topic, operation, input, physical arrangement \> come in the human language grammar analytics.

The technical-words can not be mapped just like that. The domains are different.



The human mind processes languages of different nature (Prakrutham /Samskrutham) differently. Within Samskrutham also, the modeling of Chandas and Bhasha are technically handled differently. This is the Panini –paramaparaa as ‘Vedanga Vyakarana’ and ‘Pada-Shaastra’, leading towards ‘ Shabda –Brahma /Sphota>.

Shifting out this frame and pushing the discussions in the undeclared backdrop of machine programming language development is not ‘ accurate’ model of studying the ‘Shaastra’.

4. Put the question differently and pursue the same as ‘ How can Paninian rules be inspirationally used for modeling a Natural language programming’ ? Then the dialogue partners need to be linguists and techno-linguists. The goal has to be the primacy of human language linguist over techno-linguist.

Regards

BVK Sastry

Techno-linguist fits the human language in to available technology arte-fact. Human language –lingusit demands technologist to develop a human language appropriate technology. The modus operandi and goals and outcomes are totally different.

Regards

BVK Sastry



--  
निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
---  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

No virus found in this message.  
Checked by AVG - [www.avg.com](http://www.avg.com)  
Version: 2014.0.4354 / Virus Database: 3722/7241 - Release Date: 03/24/14

