+++
title = "004 BVK Sastry"

+++
[[BVK Sastry	2018-10-29, 10:00:32 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/TpffKrDnBgs)]]



  
  
  
  
Namaste  
  
  
  
My two cents observation on the perception of the problem here ( using the  
model of Gita 2-7 : Dialogue seeking an answer to the question : Why War  
?  
  
Gita 2-7 : karpanya-dosopahata-svabhavah prcchami tvam  
dharma-sammudha-cetah ; yac chreyah syan niscitam bruhi tan me sisyas te  
'ham sadhi mam tvam prapannam  
  
  
  
The thread started with a specific subject line , has undergone many  
modifications and now it is ‘ The Role of Moderator’. The last response I  
see is the following:  
  
  
  
( Kannan: There could very well be other authentic and licit avenues for  

the airing/registering/seeking redressal of the iniquities that  
individuals/systems are open to or prone to.  
  
  
  

Nagaraj Paturi: In addition to this, discussing general conditions  
prevailing in system with regard to recruitment etc. citing a specific  
incident as case in point is different from discussing that specific  
incident and the specific individuals.  
  
  
  
Question for Clarification : Where did the current debate fit in or  
violate the BVP frame work ? Was the starting of the thread a ‘ Specific  
incident / specific individual OR a SYSTEM ISSUE ?  
  
  
  
The allowed posts according to forum home page reads (relevant extract  
below – see highlighted and colored) :  
  
  
  
Encouraged forms of communication  
  
Discussions should be in Sanskrit or English. Please use spell check and  
frame clear sentences before posting. Only accredited scholars should start  
a new Post or post replies. Others can ask questions. Scholars can start  
discussions, ask questions, answer questions. Member’s posts will be  
moderated.  
  
  
  
Members can post announcements of publications, meetings, conferences or  
other forms of events characteristic of academia including job  
announcements. Announcements of book publications as well as of new journal  
issues on the part of their authors or editors are welcome.  
  
  
  
Post if you feel your post will clarify, expand, challenge, or forward your  
views or doubts.  
  
  
  
  
  
Members may discuss Government policies specifically those policies that  
are related to Sanskrit or Indological Studies. Discussion of politics in  
general within the frame work of historical understanding of Indological  
studies or Sanskrit, in specific, is allowed.  
  
  
  
  
  
Thanks in advance for clarification and guidance which will dispel my ‘  
smruti-bhramsha’.  
  
  
  
Regards  
  
BVK Sastry  



