+++
title = "000 Dr.Raghavendra.Bhat"

+++
[[Dr.Raghavendra.Bhat	2012-07-19, 09:03:46 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/A3n_PNnR2t8)]]



**Kaivalyadhama,Yoga Research Institute**

Swami Kuvalayananda Marg, Lonavla-410403 Dist. Pune,

Maharashtra (for details pl. log on to our Website -www. [kdham.com](http://kdham.com))

(An Institute aided by Department of Secondary & Higher Education, Ministry of HRD, Govt. of India.)

  

**W A N T E D**

Applications are invited from eligible candidates for the posts of Research Officers & Research Associates in Kaivalyadhama’s Philosophico-Literary Research Department. The applications should reach to the undersigned within 15 days from the date of publication of this advertisement.  

  

**Research Officers** –

Post Graduate in Sanskrit / Yoga/ Philosophy with 1^(st) class. Ph.D. in Yoga/Sanskrit/ Philosophy or Five years research experience and should have Published research papers on literary field would be given preference. Knowledge of working on Manuscripts, Good analytical skills and must have command over English with a view to write research reports. Knowledge of computers and MS Office and ability to adapt to type in Hindi/Sanskrit would be preferred.

**Remuneration -**Payment would be between 18,000 – 20,000 on consolidated basis for the first 11 months and based on the review, the candidate would be eligible for pay band of PB 9300-34800 + 5400 after completion of one year.

  

**Research Associates-**

Post Graduate in Sanskrit/Yoga/ Philosophy. Should have Knowledge of working on Manuscripts and ability to communicate and conduct work in English. Ability to write research Papers. candidates should have 2yrs. of work experience in literary field.

**Remuneration -**Payment would be between Rs.12000 – Rs.15000 on consolidated basis for the first 11 months. Based on the review, the candidate would be eligible for pay band of PB 5200-20200 + 2400 GP after a year.

  
**Dr. B.R. Sharma   
H.O.D.**  
Philosophico-Literary Research Department,  
Kaivalyadhama, Lonavla -410403,.  
Email.-**br [sha...@kdham.com]()  
Ph.02114-273001**  
Website- www [kdham.com](http://kdham.com) :  

