+++
title = "003 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2015-04-22, 02:41:00 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/GlyvqTeWsR4)]]



April 21, 2015



Dear BVK, Namaste



IPA and Vedic phonetic studies.



It does not matter. The number of different sounds ( or different sound pulses VarNAS) is limited by the design of the human vocal tract. In Sanskrit we have approximately 37 consonants and 16 (15) vowels. Total is 53. Add another 10 pulses. Total is about 65. This is human talk is made of. Vocal frequency spectrum fans from 50 cycles per sec (subsonic) to 4000 cycles per sec. Only in singing (Soprano) frequencies can be raised up to 8000 cycles per sec. Moreover today's Vedic accents and pronunciation cannot be the same as those in 600 BC or 3000 BC. No matter which Vedic phonetic Shikshaa you choose, all are limited by frequency spectrum. So variation is going to be of minor nature. Computer is a machine. Voice input to computer is going through a microphone. Computer has a sound card inside it. Both microphone and sound card and outside speakers have limited bandwidth. All these affect input and output. IPA is for many languages of the world. One need not use it. But Vedic sounds or phones are not going to be very different (exception only few) but they have to come out of mouth which as limited bandwidth. A sound signal has frequency (pitch), amplitude (loudness) and wave shape (timbre). A sound pulse has frequency spectrum around the central frequency. If you nuances of Vedic phonetics from varous Shikshas, please post them here so we can learn from you.Thanks. N.R.Joshi



