+++
title = "011 Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma"

+++
[[Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma	2010-07-28, 07:37:29 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/Am8Pqu2KzuE)]]



Dear All,  
  
Utsava, Aacharanam, Vratam, Udyaapanam all these terms have our heritage specific contexts,values and meanings which are discovered and lived in the real time and real space by the Rishis and followed according to the Indian Astronomical Calendar, the Panchangam which(whatever be the debatable issues regarding the fixing of tithi etc) is followed across the country since immemorial past.  
Just as Yoga referred to by Yogeshwara Krishna was - then 5000 and odd years ago - "mahataa kalena nashtah" and yet got revived by the same Yogeshwara who had given it to earlier Acharyas, so too, the mahatmyam of these Utsava, Aacharanam, Vratam, Udyaapanam are apparently lost in the din and roar of non essentials which got added to the schedule in course of time.  
  
Think of the Ganesh(poor representations in chemical synthetic colors and materials)Ji taken along the roads with band, bugles and pipes amidst the crowd of floating devotees "spiritually" elevated by the spirit(alcoholic) and film songs totally unrelated in content and tones! Was this planned and prescribed by Lokamanya TilakJi? <http://parisaraganapati.net/wp-content/uploads/2009/08/Parisara-Ganapati_en_no_audio.pdf>  
  
Vratam like Ekadashi and Janmashtami do have common features such as Mouanam, Upavasa, Manasa Japa and Mahatmya-Katha shravanam. But these are substituted by talking and feasting differently and celebrating the European way with Greeting Cards, Hi Wishes, SMS and much more.  
  
Celebration without observances, penance without morality, charity sans purity, these are called Mithyachara and Dambhachara.  
There are many websites which provide "scientific" basis of religious practices and observances. They are virtual and have their virtual limitations.  
Charity and observances begin, and ought to begin, at Home. How many are such homes today?  

2010/7/26 S P Narang \<[spna...@yahoo.com]()\>



  
  
  
--  
Aangirasa/Dr.S.Ramakrishna Sharma. M.A.,Ph.D.(Eng.Lit.),Ph.D.(Sanskrit.).  

