+++
title = "011 Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)	2014-09-04, 17:20:28 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/m5PGbOiwxyA)]]



Namaste



The information details on thread ‘ How many Vyasa’s are there, started by Dr. Narayan Josihi ji has once again shown the slippery ground of the construction of history of Indian traditions. 

While the ‘ quotes’ are excellent and sourced to important works, the meaning of the words and the larger picture does not seem to be any clearer than it was at the beginning !

Here are the reasons for this :



a) All the quotes about Vyasa, are inextricably linked to the concept of Yuga concept, the work done in the junction of yugas; and the time scale of ‘Yuga – Kalpa-Manvantara ’, is not understood in a unanimous way for constructing a ‘ linear time scale’ , the basic premise of a ‘ history of a society ’. Can one portray a time line of ‘Vyasa’ ( or in this case Many Vyasas) that can be reasonably visualized ? Along with the contribution of each named ‘Vyasa’ ? Hoping repetition is avoided !



b) The statement \< The list of the Vedavyasas of the present Kalpa as found in the Sri Vishnu Mahapurana is as follows:.. \> leads to further complexity of analysis and comprehension here. With the given ‘ Faith’ understanding that between 6^(th) to 13^(th) century , all the Vedantaacharyas had the ‘ blessing of Veda-Vyasa’ for their commentaries, where does one position ‘Vishnu-Purana’ as a historic document and ‘ Veda-Vyasa-Pramapara’ lineage?



c) A side question: Does any ‘ Unabridged, edition of Mahabharata’s
contain any reference to Vyasa’s as the ‘Guru-parampara’ of
‘Suta-Puranikas’? Most likely, the critical editors would have chopped off such references as ‘ mythical –mystical and unhistorical interpolations’!



Thanks in advance for the helpful clarifications.



Regards

BVK Sastry



**From:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() \[mailto:[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\] **On Behalf Of** Nagaraj Paturi  
**Sent:** Tuesday, 02 September, 2014 1:34 AM  
**To:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} How many Vyaasas are there?



AadaraNIya Sunilji,





------------------------------------------------------------------------

No virus found in this message.  
Checked by AVG - [www.avg.com](http://www.avg.com)  
Version: 2014.0.4745 / Virus Database: 4015/8133 - Release Date: 08/31/14

