+++
title = "030 Damodara Dasa"

+++
[[Damodara Dasa	2014-09-07, 14:28:04 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/m5PGbOiwxyA)]]



Hare Krishna.  
  
Yes, I think what BVK Sastry sir says is right. Science and history  
segments (as defined by current standards) cannot tolerate such  
interventions. The reason is that the basic assumption of theirs is  
not to accept any description that cannot be explained by the medium  
of current understanding and observation; such things fall under the  
category of faith and mysticism or in other words mythology.  
  
Sorry to be non-specific about some words. To clarify vedic times  
means times of Mahabaharata and before. Vedic version means the  
version of Vedas, Mahabharata and Puranas.  
  
If possible, I would like to know the criterias by which we tag  
something described in ancient literatures as myth. I would like to  
put forward a hypothetical case:  
Say our current civilization is destroyed (as is case with many  
civilizations). After 200 years some other civilization is developed,  
not as advanced as today. They come across many writings of our  
civilization. They see a book "life history of some important person."  
There it is written that such and such person flew to USA from India  
in a machine or he just used his phone to call another person in US.  
Obviously this is a case out of their imagination. They may tag it as  
myth. But that will be mistake. Now they come across some science  
technology book and even get details to construct airplane or phone.  
But still they are not able to comprehend it at all due lack of many  
interrelated fields and the extant of skill needed to make such  
projects successful. Again they would come to conclusion that this is  
all mystic.  
So in my humble opinion, if these things are mentioned in literatures  
like puranas, then it can be explained by two hypothesis: 1. It is all  
myth, 2.It is real.  
It is very difficult to verify any of these. But if the point under  
question truly depends on point 2 being real then it will never be  
solved correctly by point 1. For example if I do not accept the  
existence of Electron and still am adamant to understand Electron  
Microscope then that is not possible or I may have to make many wierd  
assumptions and come to some theory of my own. So neutrally speaking  
science should not be limited to just current limited understanding  
and actually it was not. If you see well known scientists like Alfred  
Russel wallace, Marie and Pierre Curies, etc were very much accepting  
the possibility of existence of kind beyond our imaginations; they had  
their researches into it.  
Now neutrally analysing the information of puranas, eg. Bhagavata  
Purana, the descriptions of todays society given in 12 canto very much  
fits current obsertvation. Now we do not know the mechanism by which  
they have reached these conclusions, but this can be taken as one  
evidence indicating possibility of tri-kala-jna. There are many such  
things mentioned and I am composing a small book on this issue. Even  
the mysticism research cases of above mentioned scientists match very  
much with their descriptions in puranas. Regarding "ciran-jivi", one  
can do simple practice - make a graph of last 10 generation in one's  
family agains their death age (natural death). Take 1000 such cases.  
In almost all cases I have inquired it always came out to be  
decreasing as it advances to modern days. This is also mentioned as  
one of the symptoms of today's age.  
  
So all these observations are making me not able to accept that  
descriptions of puranas are to be tagged as myth if they are not  
comprehndable by us.  
  
Anyways, this was my humble opinion and I beg pardon if I am hurting  
anyone. I am not going to discuss this point here in this thread  
unless members are ready.  
  
Thankyou,  
Damodara Das  
09737475085  

î—“

