+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-11-04, 23:31:55 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/b3goBfWCnEo)]]



Meluhha: the Indus Civilization and Its Contacts with Mesopotamia

Mark Kenoyer, University of Wisconsin, Madison

  
May 5, 20107pm, Breasted Hall******MEMBERS’ EVENTS, THE ORIENTAL INSTITUTE, UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO**

****

Meluhha – the name for the Indus civilization found in Mesopotamian texts – was an important source of exotic goods, many of which are preserved in the archaeological record of Mesopotamia. The movement of people and goods between these two regions established a pattern of interaction that continued in later periods and is still seen today. This lecture presents an overview of the Indus civilization and its contact with the Mesopotamia during the forth to second millennia BC.

Lectures are free and open to the public due to the generous support of Oriental Institute Members. Persons with disabilities who need an accommodation in order to participate in this event should contact the event sponsor for assistance.

<https://oi.uchicago.edu/getinvolved/member/events/20100505_meluhha.html>

  

Download video of the lecture at this URL (Save file by right-clicking).

  

> 
> > [http://mindonline.uchicago.edu/media/alumni_development/alumni_education/kenoyer_05052010_512k.mov](http://mindonline.uchicago.edu/media/alumni_development/alumni_education/kenoyer_05052010_512k.movb)(Click > to play directly from Chicago U. server) >
> 

  

The insightful observations on Indus Writing made by Prof. Kenoyer in this lecture are summarised in the pdf document (URL below). They are consistent with my *Indus Script Cipher* and constitute a veritable endorsement of the artisans' competence in working with stones. My submission is that the artisan stone-workers (stones and stone ores) represented their technological repertoire through the use of the writing system in mleccha, meluhha -- the lingua franca complementing the Sanskrit-Prakrit continuum.

  

In my view, as elaborated in my *Indus Script Cipher*, there is no need to invoke assumptions about mythology or rituals or tree worship. For example, the 'unicorn' can be viewed as a composition of glyphic elements: heifer, one horn, rings on neck, pannier. The standard device in front of this composition is also composed of glyphic elements: portable furnace, superfixed dotted circles, gimlet. Similarly, the 'tree' glyph can be viewed as composed of glyphic elements: tree and leafless branches. All the glyphic elements are read rebus with glosses from the Indian *sprachbund* (language uion).

  

> 
> > Read on...<http://www.docstoc.com/docs/59579718/Kenoyermay2010> >
> 

  

Mirrored at:<https://sites.google.com/site/kalyan97/indus-script-cipher>

  

Kalyanaraman.

  

