+++
title = "000 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2015-01-11, 04:02:55 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/IunR7G8ZX9E)]]



Jan 10, 2015



Dear Dr. N. Paturi,



The word UpavarNa, I found in Apte's dictionary. The meaning given there, "minute description".



Doubling of letter in VarNNa etc was in the posting on BVP by Shri Mallalita. He was writing about Sphota-PrakritDhvani etc in that post. I may find date on Monday.



Regarding VarNaantara, I have to realy search in my library. I will try. Could we call Sandhi VarNaantara?.



This brings to my mind new question. Last year I asked the question about "A" varNakula and "A" varNaakriti from Mahabhasya. Could we call "A" VarNakula a set of allophones of "A" ?. Here "A'" indicates first vowel of vowel setof Sanskrit.



Thanks Prof Deshpande,and Dr. D. Bhattacharya for contribution which added to my knowledge.



N.R.Joshi

  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: Nagaraj Paturi \<[nagara...@gmail.com]()\>  
To: [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} UpavarNa  
Date: Sat, 10 Jan 2015 09:21:24 +0530  
  

Dear Dr. Joshi,



Can you share the links of the BVP posts where such spelling was used, so that the context can be better understood?



Can you cite the full verse/ sentence with reference details where you found the word varNAntara?

  

On Sat, Jan 10, 2015 at 7:40 AM, Madhav Deshpande \<[mmd...@umich.edu]()\> wrote:  

> 
> > Dear Dr. Joshi, >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >   The doubling in words like varṇṇa, karṇṇa is not truly lexical, > but can happen due to rules of optional consonantal doubling. Such > phenomena are often seen in Sanskrit manuscripts. As for "phonology" > being understood as Varṇāntara, that is not how the word "phonology" > is understood in that discipline. While "phonetics" refers to the > study of sounds, especially their production and perception, > "phonology" is understood as the study of the behaviour and > relationships of sounds to each other. As an example, the description > of the production of sounds in the Śikṣās and Prātiśākhyas would come > under "phonetics", while the rules of Sandhi would come under > "phonology". Hope this explains the modern usage of these words in > these fields. Best, >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Madhav Deshpande >
> 
> > 
> > (currently in Pune) >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > On Sat, Jan 10, 2015 at 4:27 AM, N.R.Joshi \<[gira...@juno.com]()\> > wrote:  
> > > 
> > > > Jan. 9, 2015 > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Thanks Dr. N.Paturi, Dr.S R. Murthy and other scholars who took time > > to explain what Prof Balgangadhara was saying about History and > > Itihaasa. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > (1) Now I have couple of questions about Sanskrit words and writing. > > In couple of postings on BVP I noticed the word VarNa is also > > written as VarNNa and KarNa is written as KarNNA. Was this error or > > are there different spellings of the same words. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > (2) Second question--What is meant by UpavarNa? Apte dict offers > > meaning as minute description. Is there other meaning to the word? > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > (3) Can the word Phonology be understood as VarNaantara? Thanks. > > N.R.Joshi > > > > 
> > > >   
> >   
> > \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
> > [**Odd Trick Fights Diabetes**  
> > "Unique" Proven Method To Control Blood Sugar In 3 Weeks. Watch > > Video.  
> > ](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/54b05d362eac05d367ba6st02vuc)[DiabetesProtocol.com](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/54b05d362eac05d367ba6st02vuc) > > > > 
> > > > --  
> > निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
> > ---  
> > You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> > To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, > > send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> > To post to this group, send email to > > [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> > Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
> > For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.  
> > 
> >   
>   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > --  
> > 
> > Madhav M. Deshpande  
> Professor of Sanskrit and Linguistics  
> Department of Asian Languages and Cultures  
> 202 South Thayer Street, Suite 6111  
> The University of Michigan  
> Ann Arbor, MI 48104-1608, USA >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > --  
> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
> ---  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>. >
> 
> > 

  
  
  
--  

Prof.Nagaraj Paturi

Hyderabad-500044



--  
निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
---  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**Apple's Crazy New Gizmo**  
Forget the iPhone 6. Next hit Apple product leaked. (see picture)  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/54b1a890b0c2828906a5dst03vuc)[fool.com](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/54b1a890b0c2828906a5dst03vuc)

