+++
title = "011 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2012-02-11, 14:43:31 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/q3t--ylMwIU)]]



Me dear pathak,



Your ideal is good; and must be perpetuated. But we have to be practical also. while we cannot abdicate our responsiblility and deviate from our goal, we cannot ignore the ground realities that all the country we have not yet been able to accomplish uniformity in the teaching methodologies. So it is not advisable to divide the Sanskrit community abruptly. You may not know that many Doctorate-holders have obtained their appellations by theses in languages other than Sanskrit. So, we cannot bring about a change all of a sudden.



So, I suggest that you hold two sessions - one for those capable of speaking in Sanskrit; and another for those who cannot speak in Sankrit - on the same day, wherein both the categories should be present. Give greater degree of prominence to the first category than the second. No body will object to such an arrangement. The second category stick to that for lack of self-confidence and proper motivation. When they see that there are persons who speak in Sanskrit fluently, they will also pick up the thread, and start practicing and preparing for speaking in Sanskrit when they have the next opportunity. Kindly remember - a good teacher never imposes; he only inspires!



Charity begins at home. When I fought for the establishment of the Sanskirt University in Karnataka, I have insisted that the medium of instruction should be completely in Sanskrit; whereas I am, myself not able to speak in Sanskrit for lack of opportunities. I am touching Sanskrit after a gap of more than FIFTY years; and so now a beginner. Wish you all success!



Fraternally yours,

s.r.krishna murthy  
  

2012/2/11 nripendra pathak \<[nri.p...@gmail.com]()\>



