+++
title = "001 hn bhat"

+++
[[hn bhat	2009-08-31, 21:46:57 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/wsfzPfzRJE0)]]



Dear Acharya,  
  
Its me who sent the "shabdavichara" attachment. It will be of great  
help in which Andhra commentary you had seen the derivation of  
"shabda" as you have given so that I can also look into it how it is  
derived. Thanks in advance.  
  
samaanayogakshema:  
  
I would like to draw attention to the view of word as made by God, by  
the biblical litrature, I would further add the following:  
  
Regarding the Western concept of the Platonic Age, the concept of  
sabdabrahma is comparable to the Logos. The saying of the Holy  
Christian scripture also "In the beginning was the Word (Logos)l the  
Word was withy God and the Word was God". (Quoted bySrinivasa Murti in  
his Preface to the Sphotavada ALS 55). By the acceptance of this  
Supremacy of Shabda, the Grammarians are in line with the other Indian  
theogists on the Word, the Nadopasaka-s in technical sense, Sangeetha  
and Mantra-Shasra. But this transcendental and lofty phenomenon of  
Human Speech Faculty is transitory on its way to audihle speech act in  
4 steps, Para, Pashyanti, Madhyama and Vaikhari. (In general terms, it  
condenses the faculty functioning from the human body in order). Para  
is the Knowledge, or concience in general. Then it takes the form of  
perception including auditory also cognition through sense orgnans.  
Now the cognition so formed is expressed converting it into Speech  
Units (which is a mediatory stage) before the audible speech is  
produced. This stage is called madhyamaa. Then through the  
articulatory organs, it is expressed in audible sound waves, as a  
unit. (Which is syntactical Unit) This fourth stage Vaikhari, which is  
grasped by the hearer and received and cognised in the same order  
reversed. This is further analyzed into pada, varna etc. used only in  
the analysis of the Auditory Speech Sounds. In This way,  
"varnaanityatva" the transitory of vocables varna-s does not afftect  
the permanent nature of so propounded Sabdabrahma. This is the short  
and long of the concept of Shabdabrahma. Though condensed in my  
Sanskrit attachment, for easy grasping I have translated into English  
the essence.  
  
With regards  

î—“

