+++
title = "000 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2015-03-01, 03:33:29 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/sIeg-a_kx14)]]



Feb 28, 2015



Thanks to Dr.D. Bhattacharya and Prof. M. Deshpande for offering information in connection with my question on Mleccha words in Mimamsa. It really makes sense from historical contacts between Arya and Mlecchas.



Prof M. Deshpande, I received and read your papers on 'Who inspired Panini" and "Mimamsa-Mleccha words". Both papers are really interesting with lot of details for further study. Thanks. N.R.Joshi

  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: Dipak Bhattacharya \<[dipak...@gmail.com]()\>  
To: "[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()" \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Did Sanskrit borrow from other ancient languages of India?  
Date: Fri, 27 Feb 2015 11:58:59 +0530  
  

Prof. Deshpande's book is well-known, but the following is not  
Non-Aryan linguistic elements in the Atharvaveda (a study of some words of Austric origin) Sanskrit Book Depot Calcutta 2000 by late Dr. Abhijit Ghosh.  

Also see Kuiper: Aryans in the Rigveda.  

Prior to these Przyluski and P.C.Bagchi did some work mainly dealing with Classical sanskrit.  

Burrow's contribution too is not negligible. Professor Deshpande has new views too.

Best

DB

  

On Fri, Feb 27, 2015 at 10:25 AM, Madhav Deshpande \<[mmd...@umich.edu]()\> wrote:  

> 
> > Dear Dr. Joshi, >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >   I have attached the pdf of my article on this subject that was > published some years ago. May be useful to this discussion. Best, >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Madhav Deshpande >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > On Fri, Feb 27, 2015 at 4:19 AM, N.R.Joshi \<[gira...@juno.com]()\> > wrote:  
> > > 
> > > > Feb 26, 2015 > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Respected Scholars, Namaskar! > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > While reading a Marathi book by a respectful author from Maharashtra > > I came across this 202 South Thayer Street, Suite 6111  
> > The University of Michigan  
> > Ann Arbor, MI 48104-1608, USA > > > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > -- >
> 
> > 

  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**Buffett’s Nightmare**  
Warren Buffett admits this is a “real threat”  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/54f23afa504733afa4c86st02vuc)[fool.com](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/54f23afa504733afa4c86st02vuc)

