+++
title = "058 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-04-30, 09:59:39 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/uiIE45OzbCo)]]



Namaste



Long thread of heated exchanges which pushed a tweet to become a mountain heap ! The genesis of the thread started with AT and ended with the wondering remark : \< Is Hinduism to be left to the sweet mercies of this lot? > ? 



I would like to add the following lines to this thread and see what further reactions would emerge on ‘traditional wisdom’ about Sita.



What existed as a social eco system in ( perceived Historical scenario and time line) of Ramayana was called ‘ Sanatana Veda Dharma’ and not ‘ modern perspective of Hinduism ! When ‘ poetry is philosophy wrapped’ and ‘ philosophy is made to social narrative poetry’ , these kind of cross current views do confuse translators from alien background ! 



**The debate on KAVYA –VINIYOGA : Utility Application of Poetry needs to be respected and kept to its limits. Traditional schools respect Ramayana as ‘Veda – re-narrated and re-visioned ’ but Ramayana is handled differently from Veda and Puranas ! They serve different purposes. **



A) १) सीतायाः चरितं महत् - sītāyāḥ caritaṁ mahat .

 This statement, attributed to Valmiki makes Ramayana a story of Sita, a story of Character of Sita.

The term ‘charita’ means ‘character and also life- incidents –narrative ( iti-vrutta : as visioned, biographical . The traditional belief is that Valmik was able to see through every event – social and private , of all characters associated with Rama; and he used a poetic narration style of all this events to bring out the essence of Vedas. Even in Vedas , there is nindaa- stuti. Meemaamsakas have the technical term to explain this part as ‘ artha-vaada’. ). This is different from itihasa - a term used to qualify Mahabharata as a document of events and narrative )



B) २) अहल्या द्रौपदी तारा तारा मन्दोदरी तथा । पञ्चकन्याः स्मरेत् नित्यं महापातक -नाशनम् । -2) ahalyā draupadī tārā tārā mandōdarī tathā \| pañcakanyāḥ smarēt nityaṁ mahāpātaka -nāśanam \|

This is a custom of recollecting five illustrious women of tradition. Three out of five are from Ramayana ! All three have different perceptions and articulate expressions on Ramas actions. The exhortation of Tara ( Valis wife) is another tough issue to handle.

When Sita is presented in this elite league of women, what is so improbable of a strong exhortation ( which of course has a very bad translation and projection in AT ? Would Softness in translation terms take away the sting of emotion behind the expression ? like the most common expression ‘ I am sorry’ ?? 



C) ३)प्रातः द्यूत-प्रस्ङ्गेन , मध्याह्ने स्त्री-प्रसङ्गतः । रात्रौ चोर-प्रसङ्गेन कालो गच्छति धीमताम् ॥

3)prātaḥ dyūta-prasṅgēna , madhyāhnē strī-prasaṅgataḥ \| rātrau cōra-prasaṅgēna kālō gacchati dhīmatām \|\|



This is a prahelikaa on how wise people spend their time in relation to the three great works of tradition : Mahabharata ( entire work is tagged as ‘ gambling session’ exploration: Dharma Rajas characterized as ‘ gambler’ Ramayana ( entire work tagged as ‘Session of Women: Sita is the key lady around whom the text narrative evolves)

and

Bhagavatam (entire work tagged as ‘ Crooked Thief- session :Sri Krishna characterized as ‘ chora’ (stealing person); 



Regards

BVK Sastry



