+++
title = "074 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-05-01, 15:41:51 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/uiIE45OzbCo)]]



Namaste



Thanks.



1) Both readings seem to be prevalent: 



Reading A: अहल्या द्रौपदी** सीता** तारा मन्दोदरी तथा \| पञ्च कन्याः स्मरेत् नित्यं महापातक नाशनम् \|\|

 

 I recite this version. In which case, 4 out of 5 illustrious women are from Valmiki Ramayana.



Reading B: अहल्या द्रौपदी तारा तारा मन्दोदरी तथा । पञ्चकन्याः स्मरेत् नित्यं महापातक -नाशनम् ।



2) The variant reading does not alter the nature of the question and relevance of the issue raised.

 The challenge still remains to find an answer on the serious questions on ‘How are current generation ‘Seeta – Ramas’ grooming 21st century next generation sons and daughters to live the ideals of ‘ Sita’ and be able to walk ‘ Or is this part of grooming to be responded by making a clairvoyant call to Kipling to resolve as ‘ The White Man’s Burden’ for Indian Women ? Or ‘ Hindu Samskara cultural
compliance quoting ‘some moth eaten shastra’ , for observance by
‘modern Hindu woman’ and force her ‘ walk 3 steps behind her man’ , succumb to ‘agni pariksha or any other pariksha of her faith’ .

Unless the current generation parents and teachers have groomed their wards to be men like ‘Sri Rama’ in caliber’ by proper communication of Srimad Ramayana essence, there is no right for them to expect their daughter-in-laws to be like ‘Sita’. ! Much less to criticize Sita Devi. 

So First parents need to show that they have lived and are living the values of Sri Rama and Sita before passing adverse remarks.

There is a lot of social, practical, ethical, educational wisdom in practicing and implementing the Tenth Commandment : **Exodus 20:17 - "You must not covet your neighbor’s house. You must not covet your neighbor’s wife, male or female servant, ox or donkey, or anything else that belongs to your neighbor." **

****

**Regards**

**BVK Sastry**





**From:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() \[mailto:[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\] **On Behalf Of** Raghavender Upadhyayula  
**Sent:** Monday, 30 April, 2018 11:15 AM  
**To:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Fwd: The Scholar Whom Audrey Truschke Cites Finds Her Tweet ‘Shocking’



Namaste Sastry Ji,



  

Best Regards,

Raghavender



























> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > ----------------------- 
> > 
> > On Sat, Apr 28, 2018 at 8:55 PM, K S Kannan > \<[ks.kann...@gmail.com]()\> wrote: >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 



> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > --  
> 



To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().

  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.



--  

You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  

To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().



