+++
title = "014 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-01-01, 16:25:06 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/x1g9RiSxyfg)]]



Namaste



1. The connection / association of ‘Guna’ and ‘Varna’ is of varying kinds across disciplines of traditions: Ayurveda, Dharma Shaastra, Jyotisha et al.



2. The Satva- Rajas- Tamas combine by proportion may be looked at as self-perpetuating to secondary and tertiary levels; and the combination limit is not limited to ‘six’.

 The R-G-B three colors are seen to yield million plus combinations which have unique ‘VARNA’ = color / worthy of describing.



 Why then ‘Four’ to qualify ‘VARNA’ ? Let us take a look at the term used in the source quote. It is ‘ VARNYAM’ and not ‘VARNA’.

 The extra stress and meaning from the ‘- yat’ pratyaya needs to be
explored. Like ‘ DHARMYAM / DHARMAM’. From Gita itself.



VARNYAM = Worthy of classification and considering for elaboration, from amongst the logical possibilities and probabilities . ( vibhaga, pra-vibhaktam)



What is the criterion for ‘ worthiness of classification’ in the context of ‘ Brahmana ..Shudra’? The worthiness is on ‘SAMSKARA- YOGA’.



Where is the clue for this ? In post death rites, in annual ‘shraadhas’, there is a term ‘ A-SAMSKRUTHA ( prameetaanaam)’ . It is
understood as ‘ those who have had no right kind of Samskaras’.

Where else ? In upanayana –adhikara context, the ‘ VARNYAM’ becomes ‘ yogyataa –adhikaara’ consideration ; elaborated in relation to ‘ Traivarnikas’ and ‘ others’.

And where else ? In Ayurveda, the medicine potency classification. In Jyotisha, the nine grahas have four varna tags and three guna descriptions tagged. In Dhatu shaastra, even metals have the ‘gunas’ associated.



I hope this facilitates some more directions to explore.



**End note**: Why see the word ‘GUNA- KARMA’ as one term? Guna Vibhaga relates to Mind –Constitution ; Karma-Vibhaga relates to the emergent action. So why not look at 4 varnyas x 3 gunas x 3 Karmas to form this table ? And exponentially expand the division ?



Regards

BVK Sastry



