+++
title = "065 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-01-07, 11:02:37 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/x1g9RiSxyfg)]]



Namaste Paturi ji



‘Sorry, if my frank expression in a ‘Jnata –Ajnaata’ mode seems to have caused a disturbance. I shared an observation and ; I am not doing any ‘ moderation’.

Getting on to the specifics: 



1. On \< What is your problem with my moderating role \> . I have NO PROBLEMS with your moderating. You have been doing such an excellent work and all appreciations. Please continue your role which you are discharging excellently. I have noticed that you in the role of moderator has intervened and said what needs to be said in time.



2. On \< Your present post as difficult to comprehend for me as all your past posts have been \> If you please let me know which line and angle of presentation is ‘ difficult’ , or ‘out of alignment’ with the traditional thinking’, I would be obliged to take the necessary correction and steps for simplification. I hope that ‘ Vidvat –parishat’ deliberations are not ‘ discourses of public-pleasantries’ .



3. On my observation on ‘ due role played’ to be a \<"Patch up and reconciliation as ‘ Agree to disagree’ model may be ‘ politically right strategy before lunch break’"? … Why do you think .. "but this is pushing the key issue below the carpet" ? ….. Where is pushing anything under the carpet here?\> : 



 The ‘Varna-Classification’ debate started with Shakar ji’s post with \< - Bhagavad Gita and other scriptures :: i.e.**‘ Scriptures position on Varna’** \> ; for which the relevant disciplines to be looked at depends on what one means by (i) ‘Scriptures’ (- a wide range of works from Vedas, Puranas and works of Acharyas) ( ii) Positioning of Gita as ‘Scripture’ (iii) What is the ‘ meaning of Varna’ and Guna intended connections ?



 You are well aware on the positioning of ‘Gita’ in multiple dimensions of understanding as Yoga-Shaastra, Dharma-Shaastra, Smruti, Part of Mahabharata, Integral unit of Prasthana Traya, historical Branching point from which three prominent Vedanta schools project their axioms and postulates on Transcendental states, branching point fo several social practices using Gita as a book of tradition and used for ‘social organization of Varnas ‘et al.



 In short, there has been a ‘mix up of the issues’ right in the starting point of the thread and response posts ; and continued touching – Practices of Social significance (Saamjika vyavasthaa - vyavahara) , Pedagogic debate (Shaastra Charchaa – Spiritual/ Philosophical), and Vision of ‘Adhyatma Darshana Yoga’
(Transcendental- Guhya)’ . Such an issue is called a ‘ loaded question’, which opens up a ‘ free rolling –free wheeling discussion’.



 When you pointed that \< If they consider that there is a scope for a healthy debate / discussion between two or three different schools of Vedanta on a specific contentious issue between them is possible, they may start a separate systematic debate/discussion on that issue and participate in the debate /discussion in the manner that helps the younger scholars to learn both the method and the content. \> , there is
\< NO SEPARATE ‘ THEY> . It is to be \<WE ALL = Parishat \>. Why limit or point this to ‘Vedanta’ only and specifically ‘ uttara- meemaamsaa frame’, where as ‘Varna’ issues are critical in ‘ poorva-meemaamsaa’ practice , aagama,Tantra, Samskara, Dharma Shaastra, Artha shaastra? Is ‘Vedanta – Vyakarana’ the exclusivity of ‘ Bharateeya – Vidwat’ ?

 When you point \<This is what I always have been trying to avoid on this forum.I have been repeatedly saying that this is not a forum only of a particular school of Vedanta.> , I feel that you have defined the \< boundaries of discussion in this forum> by keeping ‘ Vedanta – Vidwat- Bharateeyataa’/ Bharateeya – Vidwat – Vedanta’ as it becomes a ‘socially unpleasant’ exchange. I do understand the difficulties in moderation and also clearly recognize the limitations that a ‘ forum debate’ will neither solve or resolve the ‘Varna –Scriptures –Social issue’ .

 If it has not been resolved or dissolved since ‘Bhagavad-Gita’ times, and ‘ Bhagavad- Gita inherited the issue from ‘Vedic Times’,
and it still continues to be the anchor issue of debates \<**method and content**\> of current communities, why ‘ push the debate under the carpet / out of forum’? The very fact that the question has survived with whatever shortcomings, it means the issue has a relevance , at least for society from a Historical Legacy inheritance mode. This is purely my personal opinion. 

 You have the unrestricted unquestioned right to moderate and steer the discussions on the forum.

Regards

BVK Sastry





**From:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() \[mailto:[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\] **On Behalf Of** Nagaraj Paturi  
**Sent:** Saturday, 6 January, 2018 8:37 PM  
**To:** Bharatiya Vidvat parishad  
**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Four Varnas as combinations of three gunas; why not 6 varnas?



Dear Dr BVK Sastry-ji,











  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().

  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

  
  



--

Nagaraj Paturi



Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA.





BoS, MIT School of Vedic Sciences, Pune, Maharashtra



BoS, Chinmaya Vishwavidyapeeth, Veliyanad, Kerala



Former Senior Professor of Cultural Studies



FLAME School of Communication and FLAME School ofLiberal Education,



(Pune, Maharashtra,INDIA)







--  

You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  

To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().



