+++
title = "071 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-01-07, 16:17:18 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/x1g9RiSxyfg)]]



Namaste Paturi ji

1. Since Shankar –ji, who started this thread has expressed in a later post : \< As far as I am concerned, I am satisfied with the explanation provided by Vineet Chaitanyaji, Iyengarji and others. \> I do not want to add any more on this thread.



2. Please help me to understand, on what makes you feel my
statement \<"I hope that ‘ Vidvat –parishat’ deliberations are not ‘ discourses of public-pleasantries’" > as irrelevant or out of context expression ? In

 what way the statement has caused unnecessary digression from the focus of discussion. 



3. Before closing, looking back over shoulders, on why we have landed in this cross debate and where the focus should be steered to :




 3.b.1) On \< specific issue of this thread> : The title read : Four Varnas as combinations of three gunas; why not 6 varnas?. 

 3.b.2) – Starting post by Shankar read: \< It is said in the **Bhagavad Gita and other scriptures** that the four varnas are based on three gunas. The combination of gunas of the 4 varnas are said to be as shown in the table given below. ….. Though the 3 gunas can form 6 combinations as shown in the above table, why are the last two combinations (in the 5th and 6th rows) not valid to form varna? ….. I would like to know if there is any logical explanation why varnas cannot have the last 2 combinations.

 3.b.3) – Digressions in between: Guna and Varna relation in mortal society, amongst Gods, Darshana Schools on Varna and Guna relations, Why only four numeric count for Varnas, Samskruth word root,



 3.b.4) – Paraphrased issue by Shankar: \< Sureshji, To be more specific, my question was not about origin of varnas, but about the relation between varnas and gunas. Sankaracharya in his bhashya gives a certain compositions of 3 gunas in 4 varnas. This led to the actual question 'why certain combinations of gunas were not included? Is there any logical explanation to it?'



 3.b.5) - Specific question of thread as pointed by you : \< It is the specific question of **'why not more Varnas than four** that can result from the other permutations of three gunas?' \>



The thread seems to be still open to fill a gap on **‘ Scriptures position ‘no Varna’ or ‘ more than Four Varnas’** \> as listed in the table. This is apart from other related issues in specific posts.



Regards

BVK Sastry





**From:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() \[mailto:[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\] **On Behalf Of** Nagaraj Paturi  
**Sent:** Sunday, 7 January, 2018 12:00 PM  
**To:** Bharatiya Vidvat parishad  
**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Four Varnas as combinations of three gunas; why not 6 varnas?



Dear Dr Sastry-ji,













