+++
title = "000 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2016-06-27, 23:02:45 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/5MBOMD7sbsE)]]



As suggested by Dr. Sati Shankar  

  

Here is a new Threadon this subject  

  

Thanks for your interest and look forward to hear from learned members

  

Who created and promoted KRISHNA" to being the GOD?

  

Did he take a Human birth AND die a Human Death?

  

Thx

  

Dr Yadu  

  
  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**From:** Nagaraj Paturi \<nagara...@gmail.com\>  
**To:** bvpar...@googlegroups.com  
**Sent:** Sunday, June 26, 2016 9:56 PM  
**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Re: Need references for Sanskrit as a deva bhaSA  

  

\>IMHO - It is Humans who created the Gods and not the other way around.

  

The quotes do not substantiate the statement. They amount to motivating people towards purushakaara =human effort, not leaving things purely to divine help.

  

Karma theory unjustifiably maligned for being fatalistic or status-quoist. In fact, it is action-motivating and human effort motivating. To use it for fatalistic and status-quoist purposes is its misuse.

  

It is Vedic approach to treat dEvas as equals to humans and dEvas and humans as mutually nourishing.

  

देवान्भावयतानेन ते देवा भावयन्तु वः ।

परस्परं भावयन्तः श्रेयः परमवाप्स्यथ ॥ 3\\-11॥ Gita.

apaurushEyatva of the Vedas applies to apurushEyatva of dEvatAs too. So no dEvatA is man-made or man-created. Just as the Vedas are discovered , the dEvatAs which are associated with each mantra are discovered.

Coming to the claims by the Jains and the Buddhists, Prof. Aklujkar recently shared with this forum, one of his papers on the bases on which supremacy was claimed for Sanskrit. Even in that paper, I don't remember him saying that one of the bases was that Sanskrit was considered to be the language in which the dEvas spoke among themselves or that Sanskrit was the origin of all the other languages.



  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  
On Mon, Jun 27, 2016 at 9:15 AM, Sati Shankar \<studie...@gmail.com\> wrote:  

mAnyavar

  

Dr. Yadu asks, "My question to all is Who Created Gods?"

  

I am sure, I will be enlightened by learned members on it.

However , I have some uneasiness with the word "created" or 'creation',

There is a full war going on between "Creationist Scientists" and "Evolutionary Scientists", on use of this word with respect to "Primordial" emanation or manifestation ...

The first, i.e., Creationist Group pleads "God 'created' this all" as the Bible says and denounce Charls Darwin's evolution, the other group the opposite.

  

If we accept our *Rig Veda*,129, *NAsadiya Sukta*, we do not find "creation", it is emanation or manifestation of Him, by himself, hence*"idam sarvam Brahma"*.

Here Gods are the "Man"(using another Biblical connotation) if we accept Man to honestly represent what we mean, and also the Man is Gods, separated by *mAyA.*

*  
*

*A lot of confusion is prevailing because of the "Free" use of words without giving a second thought if it really represents what we have in mind.*

  

In the light of the above I would like to be enlightened.

Regards

Sati Shankar

  

  
On Wednesday, June 22, 2016 at 11:57:43 AM UTC+5:30, Sati Shankar wrote:

> 
> > mAnyavar >
> 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > I need references where **Sanskrit is said to be deva bhASA,** >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > I would be obliged forthe help. >
> 
> > 
> > Regards >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > Sati Shankar >
> 
> > 
> > 

