+++
title = "039 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2016-07-02, 13:42:57 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/5MBOMD7sbsE)]]



Namaste Dr, Bhattacharya

  

Who am I to stop you for using the incorrect terminology.

  

As Dr Kapoor in his post clearly stated and I totally agree with him::  

  

"For one term 'God' in the Hebraic systems, Vedic traditions have several terms, *Brahman, Bhagwan, Paramatma, Prabhu, Ishwar, Param Tatva, Param Shiva* - and they are not synonymous."

Just because some scholars use the term god (NOT God as per your observation) does not make it right to denegrate our deities. It is unfortunate that you fail or refuse to accept it original Sanskrit terminology.

  

Do you think Western scholars are ever going to use this even if they understand it ?

  

IIMO - It is duty of Indian Sanskrit scholars to highlight the issue and make necessary corrections. Otherwise future generation will only be learing the Alternate History of India from Windy Dioninger as being the real truth.. Although NBCC did not honor her in NY but Indians did, what a Shame.  

  

Please explain me what is wrong in using the the term "BHAGAWAN" to address KrishNa rather than LORD ?

  

Kind Rgds.  

  

Thanks

  

Dr Yadu  

  

  

>  style="font-family:HelveticaNeue,Helvetica Neue,Helvetica,Arial,Lucida Grande,sans-serif;font-size:12px"> >
>  style="font-family:HelveticaNeue,Helvetica Neue,Helvetica,Arial,Lucida Grande,sans-serif;font-size:16px"> >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 

>  style="font-family:HelveticaNeue,Helvetica Neue,Helvetica,Arial,Lucida Grande,sans-serif;font-size:12px"> >
>  style="font-family:HelveticaNeue,Helvetica Neue,Helvetica,Arial,Lucida Grande,sans-serif;font-size:16px"> >
> 
> > ------------------------------------------------------------------------ >
> **From:** sunil bhattacharjya \<[skbhatt...@gmail.com]()\>  
> **To:** BHARATIYA VIDVAT \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
> > 
> > 
> > 

>  style="font-family:HelveticaNeue,Helvetica Neue,Helvetica,Arial,Lucida Grande,sans-serif;font-size:12px"> >
>  style="font-family:HelveticaNeue,Helvetica Neue,Helvetica,Arial,Lucida Grande,sans-serif;font-size:16px"> >
> 
> > **Sent:** Thursday, June 30, 2016 8:50 PM  
> **Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Re: Who created GOD ?  
> > 
> > 
> > I call Lord Krishna as Lord as I consider him as the Lord and Master > and that is certainly not in the titular sense. There is paradigm > difference between the Lordship of Lord Krishna to me than any > Lordship conferred by the British queen upon some of her subjects. > Equating the titular lords with the divine Lord krishna is a > denigration of lord Krishna and that surely hurts people like > me,Secondly the gods (not with capital G) are beings considered > superior to the human beings by virtue of their possessing higher > powers, yet we the human beings are at an advantageous position, which > even the gods are believed to be envious of, for several reasons.Iqbal > believed the gods in the Hindu religion to be like the angels in the > semitic religions, and he seems to be not far from right. >
> 
> > 
> > 



