+++
title = "064 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2016-07-05, 20:47:56 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/5MBOMD7sbsE)]]



Dear Dr. Bhat,

  

Thank you for responding,  

  

You have correctly pointed out the real issue that was bothering me.
Everyone likes to beat around the bush rather than answering the questions in a straightforward manner. This attitude is not just limited to this list but to most Indians that I have come across during my 40 years of professional career in the US.

  

How does this discussion relate to Pollak / Windy D. ...... and Battle for Sanskrit ?

  

Our ancestors created specific term for expressing the correct intended meaning. So I am saying that try and use the correct known, established terms from Sanskrit. Using non-equivalent terms we are defeat ourselves.  

  

The purpose why it was necessary for Panini to establish rigid grammatical rules to stop (LIMIT) various diversions from numerable paratishyaaya. If not for this mammoth effort from Panini we would have possibly lost many important portions from our Veda. If there has to be what most scholars call, as "VEDA RAKSHAA" it is out responsibility to try and use our own terms rather than trying to use foreign terms that may not convey the correct intended meaning from our culture.  

  

My friend Dr. BVK Sastry says that, "Grammar is primarily viniyoga of Sutra to form a Pada, to be used in Vakya’"  

  

I hope scholars take it upon themselves to champion the cause of preserving what we have not yet lost.

  

Thank you

  

With best Rgds,  

  

Dr Yadu  

  

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  

**From:** Hnbhat B.R. \<[hnbh...@gmail.com]()\>  
**To:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
**Sent:** Tuesday, July 5, 2016 7:16 AM

  
**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Re: Who created GOD ?  





