+++
title = "050 R. N. iyengar"

+++
[[R. N. iyengar	2020-03-06, 13:14:16 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/bUXdESQdkRI)]]



Thanks for the two remarks that are along expected lines.

1\. My focus is not "textual indology." It is, as I indirectly indicated:  

"......present day inheritors of the Vedic culture who need not and in fact should not limit themselves to just the language and grammar."

Texts have played and continue to play an important role, but Indian (Hindu) culture is not strictly defined or circumscribed by etymological meanings of the words and literalistic / lexical interpretations of the texts.

Your statement"....similar concepts, and existing interpretations are used, as well as general, cultural and material history,..

everything that can contribute to a betterunderstanding of the text."is no doubt interesting. But to me it sounds as a pious declaration or a self certification. What is "better understanding"; relative to what and who decides it ! Your 'everything' seems to be limited to what is available to an indologist in well endowed libraries and museums; but that is not the all in all of the lively Indian culture and world view.



2. " One should not confuse the two words...: One means who? If the Puranas have inherited their thoughts and ideas in a particular way what is it that we can do? (उर्वशी has become ऊर्वशी in several usages). Pada and Paada are too close to each other both in meaning and by heard-sound. Moreover the context need not be ignored when information transmission happens over centuries through turns and twists.Which is the युगे प्रथमे of RV ? पुराणs take it to be स्वायंभुव (consistently) and detail out the stories of Creation in their own way. There are variations among the Puranas and I referred to Vettam Mani just as a help for those who have no time to read the different Puranas to form an opinion. Culturally, we are, as well as the Texts are in the Vaivasvata Manvantara but postulate and discuss about *something* 2 billion years ago!\[As an aside, there are people who argue *a la* Pingree that Vedas know only a Five Year Yuga\]. Hence, sanitized reading of isolated Vedic words, and their later connotations in the dynamic Hindu Puranas and living culture cannot be a satisfactory exercise. This could be the reason why the traditional belief in all parts of India is: बिभेत्यल्पश्रुताद्वेदो मामयं प्रहरिष्यति \| इतिहासपुराणाभ्यांवेदं समुपबृंहयेत् \|\|

Admittedly as an अल्पश्रुत one can at best try to see how the Vedic figures of ideas (or thoughts) are reflected in later texts, and still further carried on in day to day religio-philosophical life in India.

Best regards

  

RN Iyengar

  

  

On Thu, Mar 5, 2020 at 2:21 PM rniyengar \<[narayana...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  



