+++
title = "003 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2017-12-15, 10:02:06 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/2v4ANdEVW9s)]]



Namaste





Again some tricky issues on ‘Samskruth Language and Grammar rules technicality and Terminology in use’ !



My observations on which I seek comments from Samskruth and Prakruth Language scholars please: 



A) How does ‘ ’नमस् ’ of Samskruth ( yielding नमः / नमो ) translate to \< णमो> in which specific Prakrtuh ?

B) which specific Prakrtuh rule from ‘ Hemachandra or other Prakruth grammarian governs the use of with Chaturthee for णमो \> ? 



B) There are many overlaps of Jaina and Vaidika Practices. It is also acknowledged that ‘ many Jaina Community members and Masters ’ were ‘Samskruth Language Scholars’. So were Buddhists. 

 Why confuse between ‘ Mata-Dharma –abhyasa issues’ and ‘ Language Scholarship issues ?



There are many current period ‘ Jainology and Prakrtu- Innovative Scholars’ who prefer to tread the line of Western Indology and Linguistics who are proud to give up the directives of ‘ Hemachandra’, nay even ‘ Kunda Kundaacharya’ in connecting ‘ Samskruth and Prakrtuh’ ! to attract government funds.



There is a deep rooted divide and multiple fissures in the community based on ‘ narrow Linguistic presentation and perspectives’. 



Regards

BVK Sastry





**From:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() \[mailto:[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\] **On Behalf Of** V Subrahmanian  
**Sent:** Friday, 15 December, 2017 7:48 AM  
**To:** BHARATIYA VIDVAT  
**Cc:** [hemang...@gmail.com]()  
**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Jain dharma not part of hundu traditions?



Jain sannyasins also observe chāturmāsya. Lakshmi, Ganapati, Shiva, etc. deities are worshiped by them.

On Fri, Dec 15, 2017 at 6:45 AM, S. L. Abhyankar \<[sanskr...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:

Dear Mr. Hemang Chawla,



Jains offerपंचणमोक्कारो- ॐणमो अरिहंताणं,ॐणमो सिद्धाणं,ॐणमो अवज्झाणं ... etc.Is not ॐ नमो from Hindu tradition ?



Jains also have temples. So there is idol worship, which is also primarily Hindu tradition.



Jains have 24 तीर्थंकर-s. In Hindu tradition, the संध्या-मन्त्र-s have 24 नमः-s => केशवाय नमः, नारायणाय नमः, माधवाय नमः, गोविन्दाय नमः, ... etc.



Many Jain मुनि-s are Sanskrit scholars, though theपंचणमोक्कारो-quote is not Sanskrit and also faults the Sanskrit grammar rule thatनमः should be with fourth case.

--  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  

To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().

  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.



--  

You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  

To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().



