+++
title = "006 Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)	2015-08-05, 10:19:26 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/PMLjj6QEjIA)]]



Namaste



1. The copy-right and plagiarism issues in the case of Sri Rajiv Malhotra have gone totally off the track. I am responding on this post, which in the subject line addresses a very vast theme, and the post
says : \< I invite your comments on this issue. \>

 When respected traditional scholar and Director of Academics in Sanskrit University makes a public forum statement \< **I have not seen Rajivs books and will never read them**. but it is only curiosity. \>, it does not sound appropriate and an expression in good taste. The debate, then is a chit chat about the good or bad of a copyright law applicability to Samskruth documents. Rajiv Malhotra and Copyright issues need not be mixed up.

 This situation sends a mixed signal of a closed mind set and an attitude of ‘not caring for Gita- guidance on ‘Loka-Sangraha’. The scenario is one of war to \<Save the language of Dharma –Yoga and Vedanta>. One may ‘ believe and behold’ that ‘Deva-bhashaa’ never dies ! but the definition of human language in a dynamic society is different from the language of ‘ Deva’s /Gods (?)’. In fact, Vedanta is a tradition so much focused on the precision standard and maintenance of
language-articulation-integrity, in ancient texts, that ‘True articulation’ of one letter ‘a’- explicit or absent in a Vedanta Sutra ! Vedanta is not a ‘Scripture-Scripted tradition’, much less a ‘Copy righted /Copy –protected system’. When some thing is ‘free for all’, which in this case is ‘Sanskrit’, either it is an orphan not cared properly by any one OR over cared that it ‘becomes the static idol (pratima) in the Mandir’, totally wrapped and insulated from the world-reality.

Both are not good for the health of a sacred language which needs to be(i) dynamic and vibrant and (ii) not to be labeled as ‘Dead language’ and yet be honored for making such a statement.

2. Sri Rajiv Malhotra has made some very important contributions as a ‘ Public Intellectual’ in International scenario in two decades and more, from US Platform in sensitizing the issues critical for Samskrutham and India studies. For the focus of this forum, it is enough to focus his deliberations on ‘Sanskrit Phobia’. His contribution is not ‘ sensational news creation’ . but an important contribution to point out the following:

3. A large number of India and Samskrutham appreciators all over the globe are looking at what critical areas would be addressed PRIMARILY by Sanskrit (Education) Universities in India and SANSKRIT DEPARTMENTS IN Universities in Post Independent India, to revive ‘Glory and Relevance of Samskrutham studies’ . Sri Rajiv Malhotras writings have
shaped these debates and spurred global public interest related to Samskruth studies ; the questions being

- Who studied Sanskrit ? When ? How and for what purpose ? Why Study Sanskrit, now ? Challenges of Colonial model overlay on Vedic model of Samskruth study? What are the distortions that have taken place by compromised tolerance of allowing bad translations for ‘ Samskruth terms’, which are basically ‘ non-translatable’.

4. Beyond raking up ‘copy right issues’ for which the simple answer from ‘tradition is in the statement ‘Vyasocchishtam jagat sarvam’ and ‘Param kaveenaam aadharam’ (Valmiki), there is a critical urgency to
address the pedagogy issues and answer the question ‘ How and Why Study Samskruth ? ’ be it in the ‘ colonial model’ of academics which pushes (Deviant model ) or Traditional Gurukul /Sanskrit University
mode ( which are not practical in the modern institutions). The student enrollment in the courses is down; and quality of output from the institutions leaves much unsaid.

5. In short, beyond quoting all nice regurgitated statements of ‘golden age glory’ and ‘ pride of heritage’, please contribute something on the ‘ Life-relevance’ of Samskruth to attract a 80% plus scorer from Indian education system coming out of school, completing
SSLC /PUC to join a Sanskrit University course. Why should the parent invest on their wards education to study Samskruth’ prioritizing over
‘engineering and medical’ ? Where is a place for ‘Sanskrit as a language’ in competitive examinations ? Where are the parents and inspiring teachers who would steer the young mind to have an engagement with Kalidas or Valmiki or Vyasa or even Veda ? forget about the Sahitya academy award winners for current compositions in Sanskrit .
Who is shaping the next-recipient of the ‘Samskruth Scholarship
baton’ in this grandiose chain of generational parsing of ‘Veda-Vedanta related language knowledge ?

This is what I thought and understood as the Samskruth issues to be addressed from the post of Dr.Srinivasa Varkhedi in an earlier thread.

If anyone is aware of answers to these questions and impacted by the
developments due to the decline in quality and quantity of traditional scholarship, it is the team at Sanskrit Universities in India and the gurukuls. ( Please do not shoot me back with names of some classical and semi-Gurukuls doing yeomen service; I am personally aware of the
internal and inner limitations of several of these ‘ narrow base – focused goal oriented institutions , supported by faith -practice communities’. The ‘accepted hypothesis and answers in these institutional context do not extend to a global environment, not even in India. A simple example: Please see the status of Sanskrit studies in an Ayurveda course .

It pains me very much to write all these lines on a public forum ; please take this as my personal confession. But the compulsion to write these lines arises, when the issue of ‘Copy right’ related discussions on Sanskrit works, here and the responses take a different direction and get mixed up with at least one public intellectual who has put his neck on the anvil for cause of Sanskruth..

6. Coming back to Copy right issues, it is a worldly business mechanism to provide and respect the efforts of an entrepreneur, the heritage of a nation. Should one argue on the power of the scholars recommendation in this forum that ‘Samskruth texts and documents’ should be out of
Copyright law ?

Without mentioning name, a few years ago, a US technologist made the ‘ High resolution Images of Sarvamoola Grantha’ and the same was ‘COPY RIGHTED’! by one of the specifically interested religious institutions, who had ‘ hold –access to the 700 years old original manuscript’. The ‘High resolution Chip etched image of the Original manuscript’ had already seen multiple publications in cheap paper right through a chain of many publishers over several years ! The ‘entire content’ – the sense and soul of the manuscript was out on cheap paper, local and international language translations had not helped any better to understand the text or increase the students studying the same ! The copy right claim was for the ‘High Tech High resolution image of the original’ which would remain ‘ freezed –dead-perfect’ ; and needing a very costly and sophisticated equipment to view it! 

When I brought this issue to the notice of some one very respectable and high in the organization, the response I received was very enlightening. I was ‘told, in a rebuking tone ’ –‘ When Sri Veda Vyasa did not copy right Brahma sutras and original commentators did not copyright the writing, what are these people asking in © symbol? It is all a fight for name and money, which has nothing to do with what is written in the manuscript !

Please excuse me for the outpour of personal nature. If we cannot take up the cause and fight, if we cannot fight for a language which we live and respect, then at least , lend our support to someone who is fighting for the cause we like.

Regards

BVK Sastry



--  

निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  



