+++
title = "000 Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma"

+++
[[Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma	2010-06-25, 05:29:31 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/g9wQ7BwIm_A)]]



हरि: ॐ  
नमस्ते।  
Call for Papers in PDF is on the way.  
Meanwhile the following information may be noted.  
  

### International Conference 2011.

**Decoding Veda Vidya and Traditional Resources  
for Rediscovering Scientific Heritage of India. January 21-23, 2011**  
  
Faculty members, PG students, M.Phil and Ph.D candidates of **Samskrutam mainstream courses** with Science background,and **Science mainstream courses** with Samskrutam background are invited to contribute papers on topics related to decoding Veda Vidya and traditional resources for rediscovering Indian scientific heritage. A 300-500 word **abstract of the paper** in Samskrutam and English should be sent, preferably **as an email attachment, by July 30, 2010.** The abstract should include research objectives, methodology and significance, followed by keywords. The abstracts will be refereed. All scholarly methodologies are welcome. Author’s name, academic institution, address, phone number and email address must be included in a brief author profile on a separate page. **Acceptance of the abstracts will be notified by August 16, 2010.**  
**The medium of communication would be Samskrutam and English.**  
  
**Conference Sub-themes:**  
• The Science of Oral Traditions of the Vedas: Chanting and Structure.  
• Identifying Multidisciplinary Areas of Vedic Resources for Research and Development.  
• Vedic Psychology and Yogic Practices.  
• Different Branches of Vedic Technological Applications and Sciences behind them.  
• Body -Mind -Consciousness Paradigm of the Vedic Sciences V/S Modern Sciences.( Holistic Integration V/S Isolating Specialization)  
• Decoding Vedic Resources, Vedic Tools and Vedic Research Methodology.  
  
**Contact :** [vedic...@gmail.com]()

  
  
--  
Aangirasa/Dr.S.Ramakrishna Sharma. M.A.,Ph.D.(Eng.Lit.),Ph.D.(Sanskrit.).  

