+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-10-20, 06:55:26 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/Ilu0PTJzl9Q)]]



Position: Director, Asian Pacific American Program, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, DC  
\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*  
  
Smithsonian Institution, Asian Pacific American Program  
  
Director of the Smithsonian's Asian Pacific American Program  
  
  
Institution Type: College / University  
Location: District of Columbia, United States  
Position: Director  
  
  
The Smithsonian Institutionis accepting applications and nominations for the position of:  
  
Director, Asian Pacific American Program  
  
Announcement # EX-10-22  
  
Closing Date:November 1, 2010  
  
Given the increasing importance of Asian and Pacific heritage and innovation in todays world and its global economy, the importance of thePacificandIndian Oceansand their ecology, as well as the growth of the Asian American population and its influence in the United States, theSmithsonianrequires a robustAsian & Pacific Islander Americanprogram in the coming years. To that end, the Smithsonian is in the midst of transforming its current Asian Pacific American Program into theSmithsonian Asian & Pacific Islander American Center.  
  
  
The Directorwill lead the initiative to develop a Smithsonian Asian & Pacific Islander American Center at theInstitutionand nationally, building upon the foundation of the Smithsonians current Asian Pacific American Program.  
  
The Director will be responsible to work with and build collections, expand staff, create anational advisory board, and help formulate a new type of museum presence that takes full advantage of new media and the growth ofAsian AmericanandPacific Islander American communities.  
  
The Director has the primary responsibility to enhance public understanding of the heritage of Asian &Pacific IslandAmericans and their historical and contemporary contributions to the American experience, to world cultures, and to the study and appreciation of the natural world as articulated in the Smithsonians Strategic Plan Inspiring Generations through Knowledge and Discovery. The Director enables the Smithsonian Institution as a whole to appropriately representAsian & Pacific IslanderAmericans in its research programs, collections, and educational and outreach activities, in its workforce, its advisory boards, and among fellows and interns.  
  
  
DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES  
  
\* Advises and consults with the Secretary, the Under Secretary for History, Art, and Culture and other appropriatesenior management officialson pan-Institutional programs and issues with respect to the representation of the diverse heritage of Asian & Pacific Islander Americans, their historical and ongoing contributions to the American experience, and connections to various other groups, communities and the nation as a whole. In this capacity, manages any pan-Institutional Asian & Pacific Islander American fund.  
  
\* Directs the current Asian Pacific American Program and will direct the Smithsonian Asian & Pacific Islander American Center, with responsibility for its scholarly activities, exhibitions, educational and public programs, its on-online presence, the development and management of its staff, board, and volunteers, oversight and enhancement of its fiscal resources, and its consistency and compliance with Smithsonian policies, plans, and procedures.  
  
\* Coordinates a distinguished advisory board of public officials, civic, business, philanthropic, and academic leaders with a view of supporting programs and initiatives and advancing the national interest in the representation of Asian & Pacific Islander American achievement in history, arts, culture, science and technology, in the context of the American experience and its connections to world cultures.  
  
\* Develops and maintains scholarly and educational relations with otherSmithsonian museums, research centers, consortia and programs, and seeks collaborative projects and activities that represent Asian & Pacific Islander American heritage and contributions to the American experience and relationship to other world cultures. Such may involve joint staff appointments, collaborative research, the acquisition of important artifactual, art, and documentary collections, exhibitions, educational and public programs, websites and publications, online and media products, community outreach, et al.  
  
\* Promotes Institutional partnerships with museums, universities, educational consortia and community organizations. Develops strategies that identify and encourage increased Asian American andPacific Islander American candidatepools for Smithsonian employment. Facilitates opportunities to trainAsian AmericansandPacific Islander Americansin museum-related fields of study, in an effort to increase internships and fellowships in the museum profession.  
  
\* Serves as primary liaison within the Smithsonian to Asian American andPacific Islander American communitygroups, national organizations, scholarly and professional associations, academic departments and other organizations. Aids the Secretary, Under Secretary, and Office of Government Relations in representing Asian andPacific Islander American activities, issues and needs at the Smithsonian to the Office of Management & Budget, the Regents, members and committees of Congress.  
  
\* Builds public awareness of all of theSmithsonians Asian AmericanandPacific Islander American programsand activities, and works with the Office of Public Affairs as appropriate in order to do so.  
  
\* Raises funds for the Center and its activities. Develops relationships with corporate and philanthropic sectors, encourages and applies for government and foundation grants so as to increase resources available for research and educational activities focused upon Asian American andPacific Islander American heritageand contributions to the American experience. Works with the Office of Development as appropriate.  
  
\* Maintains active scholarly or professional standing and reputation by conducting research, or publishing work, or making public presentations in the Asian American andPacific Islander American fields.  
  
  
EXPERIENCE AND QUALIFICATIONS WE SEEK:  
  
\* Knowledge of the historical, cultural, artistic, and scientific contributions of Asian American and Pacific Islander American communities and individuals with a broad inter- and trans-disciplinary perspective and an orientation that allows for the inclusion of diverse peoples and communities.  
  
\* Experience and demonstrated results in presenting Asian American andPacific Islander American contributions, themes and issues through scholarly research, public programming, exhibitions and /or publications with particular emphasis on reaching, interacting, and engaging with communities through new, digital social media, websites, and applications.  
  
\* Demonstrated ability to connect Asian American andPacific IslanderAmerican-related contributions, themes and issues to those of other Americans and peoples of the world.  
  
\* Demonstrated entrepreneurial ability to build relationships and collaborate with Smithsonian museum and program directors and staff as well as external organizations to leverage support for and participation in programs.  
  
\* Successful track record of raising funds from individuals, foundations, corporations and governmental organizations through gifts, grants and partnerships.  
  
\* Communications and nimble social skills to represent the organization, its mission, vision, topical and content focus to Smithsonian directors and senior management, advisory groups, government officials and international dignitaries, community leaders, members, and civic groups and to the media.  
  
\* Demonstrated skills for leading and managing a multi-disciplined and culturally diverse workforce, including fostering teamwork and high morale, attracting, retaining, and mentoring staff, fellows, interns and volunteers, and implementing EEO/Affirmative Action policies and programs.  
  
Applications must be received by the closing date.  
  
This a senior Smithsonian Trust position. Salary range is based on a comprehensive market survey of positions with similar authority and scope of responsibilities.  
  
The individual selected for this position is subject to a full-field background investigation and will be required to file a confidential statement of employment and financial interests.  
  
The Smithsonian providesreasonable accommodationsto applicants with disabilities. If you need a reasonable accommodation for the application/hiring process, please call  
  
[(202) 633-6370](tel:(202)%20633-6370)(voice) or[(202) 633-6409](tel:(202)%20633-6409)(TTY).  
  
The Smithsonian Institution is anEqual Opportunity Employer. We believe that a workforce comprising a variety of educational, cultural and experiential backgrounds support and enhance our daily work life and contribute to the richness of our exhibitions and programs. See Smithsonian EEO program information:[www.si.edu/oeema](http://www.si.edu/oeema).  
  
  
Contact: HOW TO APPLY  
  
E-mail your resume and cover letter indicating your interest in position # EX-10-22 to:  
  
Tom Lawrence  
  
Office of Human Resources  
[202-633-6319](tel:(202)%20633-6319)  
[lawr...@si.edu]()  
  
Website:[www.si.edu](http://www.si.edu/)  
  
Primary Category:  
Secondary Categories: Asian History / Studies  
  
Posting Date: 10/19/2010  
Closing Date11/01/2010

