+++
title = "000 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2014-09-10, 17:16:16 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/3dFmk_4vmd0)]]



Sept 9, 2014



Prof A. Aklujkar,



Thanks for clarification on the name Vyaasa the author of Vyaasa Bhaashya on Yogasootras of Patanjali. At least one confusion is removed. But now some body posted (Is it BVK or somebody else? I do not know)



"

Yes, This is important. But to my knowledge there is no systematic statement on this in the puranas or elsewhere. We only know that Badarayana Vyasa, who wrote the Brahmasutra, belonged to the fourth generation after Vedavyasa, who classified the Vedas, and that is according to the Sama Vidhana Brahmana, if my memory serves me right. "

Aa I understand Badarayan Vyaasa is the author of Uttar Mimamsaa. And Krishna Dvaipayan Vyaasa is the composer of Brahmasootras. I may be wrong. Please kindly correct me. Is it true that that Badarayan Vyaasa was the fourth generation (within 100 years) of Dvaipayan Vyaasa.

I am puzzled.Please help me. Thanks. NRJOSHI

  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: Ashok Aklujkar \<[ashok.a...@gmail.com]()\>  
To: [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} How ma ny Vyaasas are there?  
Date: Sun, 7 Sep 2014 23:50:32 -0700  
  
The author of the Yoga-bhaa.sya is no Vyaasa or Veda-vyaasa or K.r.s.na-dvaipaayana Vyaasa. The authorship should really go to Vindhya-vaasa (known as a Saa.mkhya thinker, sometimes also through the synonymous form Vindhya-vaasin).



The attribution to Veda-vyaasa in an introductory verse of Vaacaspati-mi;sra's Tattva-vai;saaradii is either a corruption of Vindhya-vaasa in the manuscripts of theTattva-vai;saaradii or a misreading of his manuscript source byVaacaspati-mi;sra (a critical study of the mss of the Tattva-vai;saaradii is needed to determine the specific cause; in any case, the corruption I have suggested is very probable; all it ultimately needs is reading the two syllables dhyavaa as davyaa).



In the Nyaaya-vini;[scaya-vivara.na](http://scaya-vivara.na) of Vaadi-raaja-suuri, the Yoga-bhaa.sya is cited as vindhya-vaasino bhaa.syam.Vaadi-raaja-suuri lived about 1025 A.D. He is earlier than K.sema-raaja, a student of Abhinava-gupta, Maadhava, the author of the Sarva-dar;dana-sa.mgraha and Vij;[naana-bhik.su](http://naana-bhik.su), the author of the Yoga-vaarttika, whose attributions resembles the one in the Tattva-vai;saaradii.



The fact that the Yoga-bhaa.sya refersto views such as those of the Vainaa;sika, ;Sunya-vaadin, and K.sa.nikavaadin presents no problem when the work is ascribed toVindhya-vaasa. Nor does the absence of Yoga-bhaa.sya as an achievement of a Vyaasa or Veda-vyaasa in the lists of Vyaasas that have so far been presented.



I have presented my view of Yoga-bhaa.sya authorship in lectures since 1994. The view has also been reported on p. 40 of the Yoga volume, published in 2008, of the Encyclopedia of Indian Philosophies (general editor Karl H. Potter, vol XII editors Gerald James Larson and Ram Shankar Bhattacharya).



The text of my lecture has not been published so far. I have not finalized it because I was hoping to have the benefit of a critical edition of the Yoga-bhaa.sya or of at least an edition of that work based on a consultation of mss from different parts of India. Dr. Philipp A. Maas has made considerable progress in that direction, but it will be quite some time before I can consult his work in depth.



A preliminary study of at least the introductory section of the Tattva-vai;saaradii on the basis of mss from different parts of India will also be helpful. However, I do not know of any scholar working on it, and I am personally occupied with several demanding research projects in widely separated areas of Indology.



As I recall, the subject 'how many Vyaasas' has already been discussed to some extent in Bhagavad-datta. 1974-78. *Vaidika Vå:nmaya kå Itihåsa.* 3 vols. (in unexpected reverse chronological order: 1978, 1976 and 1974) out of 5 projected vols. Expander and editor: Satya-;sravå. Naii Dillii: Pra.nava Prakaa;sana. Hindi. Originally published: Vol. 1, Pt. 1: 1927. Vol. I, Pt. 2: 1931. Lahore: Dayananda Anglo-Vedic Studies.



a.a.



On Sep 7, 2014, at 1:58 PM, N.R.Joshi \<[gira...@juno.com]()\> wrote:

  

> 
> > In the book, “Contribution of Vacaspati Mishra to Indian Philosophy” > by S. Ranganath, on p.199 (Chapter on Yoga) there appears the author > Vyaasa as the author of Vyaasa Bhashya. >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > In Vyaasa bhaashya, there is reference to > Vainaasika,Bauddhas,Shunyavaadi Bauddhas,Vijnan aadins,KshaNika > vaadins, Vaisheshikas and so on. It clearly shows that this Vyaasa is > not Krishna Dvaipayana Vyaasa. >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 



--  
निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
---  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**The #1 Worst Carb Ever?**  
Click to Learn #1 Carb that Kills Your Blood Sugar (Don't Eat This!)  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/540f6a9fa985e6a9f3333st01vuc)[FixYourBloodSugar.com](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/540f6a9fa985e6a9f3333st01vuc)

