+++
title = "004 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2014-09-11, 21:45:52 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/3dFmk_4vmd0)]]



Sept 11, 2014



Thanks for your input Prof N. Paturi. I have difficulty in understanding the sentence, Could you kindly add some more explanations please. Thanks. NRJoshi

  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: Nagaraj Paturi \<[nagara...@gmail.com]()\>  
To: [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} How ma ny Vyaasas are there?  
Date: Wed, 10 Sep 2014 22:00:12 +0530  
  

There is no book called Uttara Mimamsa. There is a book called Brahma Sutras. The Shaastra/Dars'ana to which it provides sutras is called Uttara Mimamsa.





On Wed, Sep 10, 2014 at 5:23 PM, Ajit Gargeshwari \<[ajit.gar...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> >  style="color:#330033;font-family:georgia,serif"> >
> The question you have raised has already been answered in the thread. > Prof. Aklujkar may want to clarify, but i think he has answered your > question >
> 
> > 

> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > Regards  
> Ajit Gargeshwari  
> न जायते म्रियते वा कदाचिन्नायं भूत्वा भविता वा न भूयः।  
> अजो नित्यः शाश्वतोऽयं पुराणो न हन्यते हन्यमाने शरीरे।।2.20।। >
> 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > On Wed, Sep 10, 2014 at 2:30 AM, N.R.Joshi \<[gira...@juno.com]()\> > wrote:  
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > Sept 9, 2014 > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Prof A. > > > >  > style="color:#330033;font-family:georgia,serif;display:inline"> > > > > 
> > > > Aklujkar, > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Thanks for clarification on the name Vyaasa the author of Vyaasa > > Bhaashya on Yogasootras of Patanjali. At least one confusion is > > removed. But now some body posted (Is it BVK or somebody else? I do > > not know) > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > " > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Yes, This is important. But to my knowledge there is no systematic > > statement on this in the puranas or elsewhere. We only know that > > Badarayana Vyasa, who wrote the Brahmasutra, belonged to the fourth > > generation after Vedavyasa, who classified the Vedas, and that is > > according to the Sama Vidhana Brahmana, if my memory serves me > > right. " > > > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > Aa I understand Badarayan Vyaasa is the author of Uttar Mimamsaa. > > And Krishna Dvaipayan Vyaasa is the composer of Brahmasootras. I may > > be wrong. Please kindly correct me. Is it true that that Badarayan > > Vyaasa was the fourth generation (within 100 years) of Dvaipayan > > Vyaasa. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > I am puzzled.Please help me. Thanks. NRJOSHI > > > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 





  
  
  
--  

Prof.Nagaraj Paturi

Hyderabad-500044



