+++
title = "004 Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)	2014-02-25, 11:29:56 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/8PP6g1jsUMU)]]



Namaste



Sharing my personal opinion,



1. Prof. / MM KSV’s work should be reviewed from a broader perspective and mind set. Unless one goes through the complete writing he has made in his wonderful work Satyaanveshana in Samskrutham and sees the overall logic, the original contribution of the work and value of it can not be understood.



2. KSV is impartially appreciative and equally critically of all three Vedantacharya systems and practices. His tuning is more aligned to the unified approach provided by Sri Rangapriya Deshika Swamigal (aka HSV)
and Sri Ranga Mahaguru, who had made great inroads in the practical understanding of Yoga-Sadhana and also trained several students for practice.



Prof. KSV ‘s respect for Advaita schools is no less in relation to his respect for Vishistaadvaita / Vaishnava traditions. His writings are a result of personal deep deliberation and scholarship over a period of years.



3. Each reviewer has the personal privilege of looking at the given resource from different perspectives and have the review articulation. During my personal interactions with KSV I have found him to be extremely open, soft in guiding, critical in matters of scholarship and impartial. His personal preference to stay with Sri Vaishnava practices as a practicing family tradition does not seem to influence his scholarly critiquing of the SriVaishnava positions and practices ! That is the quality of a great teacher and researcher.



Regards

BVK Sastry



------------------------------------------------------------------------

No virus found in this message.  
Checked by AVG - [www.avg.com](http://www.avg.com)  
Version: 2014.0.4259 / Virus Database: 3705/7122 - Release Date: 02/24/14

