+++
title = "007 Dr. T. Ganesan"

+++
[[Dr. T. Ganesan	2014-02-25, 14:49:00 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/8PP6g1jsUMU)]]



  
  
*KSV is impartially appreciative and equally critically of all three Vedantacharya systems and practices. His tuning is more aligned to the unified approach provided by Sri Rangapriya Deshika Swamigal (aka HSV)
and Sri Ranga Mahaguru, who had made great inroads in the practical understanding of Yoga-Sadhana and also trained several students for practice.*  
  
  

The Yoga-saadhanaa is not a monolithic one and is not the same for all systems.  
Yoga and other related practices being the basics, each school modifies the practices and even the outlook on Yoga topics to suit its highest goal.  
This is much clearer and more evident in the systems based on Agama-s/Tantra-s.  
  
That said, it is to be seen to which system of Yoga-saadhanaa KSV has trained his students for practice.  
  
  
Ganesan

  
  
  
On 25-02-2014 11:29, Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop) wrote:  

> 
> > Namaste >
> 
> > Sharing my personal opinion, >
> 
> > 1. Prof. / MM KSV’s work should be reviewed from a broader > perspective and mind set. Unless one goes through the complete > writing he has made in his wonderful work Satyaanveshana in > Samskrutham and sees the overall logic, the original contribution of > the work and value of it can not be understood. >
> 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > Prof. KSV ‘s respect for Advaita schools is no less in relation to his > respect for Vishistaadvaita / Vaishnava traditions. His writings are
> a result of personal deep deliberation and scholarship over a period > of years. >
> 





