+++
title = "017 Dr. T. Ganesan"

+++
[[Dr. T. Ganesan	2014-02-27, 11:28:59 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/8PP6g1jsUMU)]]



  
*I know of one work which is an atttempt at showing Samanvaya of not only the three schools mentioned below (Advaita, Viśiṣṭādvaita and Dvaita) but also other Vedānta schools (Bhāskara's Bhedābheda, Nimbārka's Dvaitādvaita, Vallabha's Śuddhadvaita (Puṣṭimārga), and Acintyabhedābheda (of six Gosvāmins of the Gauḍīya Vaiṣṇava school), and the five other schools of Sāṅkhya, Yoga, Nyāya, Vaiśeṣika and Mīmāṁsā. The essay is titled Ṣaḍdarśanasamanvaya, is in Hindi and runs into a good 50-60 pages.* *  
*  
  

It at all there is Samanvaya among all these long list of systems (which attempt appears to be bizarre, in the first place), *it can be that all these systems are Astika--they accept the authority of the Veda-s--and nothing else.*  
If that supposed Samanvaya did exist, why then, was it missed by the AcArya-s of these systems and by the succeeding teachers?  
  
Taking the example of Bhaskara who commented on the Brahmasuutra-s and followed Samkara within a century, he fully refutes Samkara's interpretationa and finally calls him 'Pracchannabauddha' . This single word fully represents how Samkara's interpretations were viewed among the contemporary VedAnta teachers. That means according to Bhaskara, Samkara's interpretation would lead only to Buddhist Nihilism which Buddhist view is the perceived common opponent and to refute whose views all the AcArya-s have embarked upon writing commentaries on the BrahmasUtra-s. Here Bhaskara does not say that Samkara's interpretation is one way and his own interpretation, another one. For him, Samkara's view is absolutely untenable and should be refuted completely. In such a glaring situation, how can one attempt to find a Samanvaya, say, of these two systems ? The same is the case with other AcArya-s also.  
  
Then, why is there so much variation and disagreement even among the VaishNava VedAnta AcArya-s beginning from Ramanuja, etc. ??  
  
I would suggest to a prospective *samanvaya seeker* first of all to make an attempt to find the 'samanvaya' among these VaishNava commentators on the BrahmasUtra-s !!!  
  
  
Ganesan





