+++
title = "001 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2012-01-30, 06:19:14 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/HQvvk8uaNZo)]]



Dear Dr. Rajaram,



While thanking you for your invitation, I must point out that your observation that Advaita, being considered as Vedanta, is because of the Ramakrishna Mission; giving the impression that the Mission is projecting one view of vedanta. I say that the Mission and not merely the R.K.Mission but all schools of philosophy upto Ramakrishna, Aurobindo, Ramana, adhere to Advaita, because That is Vedanta. The Great Madhwa and Ramanuja deviated slightly from the Advaita, not because they did not realise Advaita; but because of compassion for the masses, who could not rise to the level of understanding the Advaita; because the Vedas declared 'Naayamaatma balahinena labhyaH'.



The Vedas are very definite and specific that though it uses a metaphor of two birds, on which both the above seers relied, they end up referring to 'dehi' in singular and not dual, by the process of Reductio ad absurdum. So the whole universe is caused by one and only material Brahma, and all others are derivatives. The phrase, Brahma satyam jaganmithya only means that Brahma is the primary and all ohters are its derivatives. You may recall that I had pointed this to you at the end of your lecture on the above subject at the Mythic Society; which you had generously accepted.



Yours sinecerely,

s.r.krishna murthy.  





>   
> > --  
> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
> to subscribe go to the link below and put a request  
> <https://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat/subscribe>  
> To unsubscribe from this group, send email to  
> [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]()  

  

