+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2011-02-08, 03:10:14 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/dUrgUoc10VE)]]



Position: Doctoral Fellowships, Heidelberg University, Cluster of Excellence: "Asia and Europe in a Global Context"

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

Heidelberg University, Cluster of Excellence "Asia and Europe in a Global Context"

  

Doctoral Scholarships in Transcultural Studies

  

  

Institution Type: College / University

Location: Germany

Position: Doctoral Fellow

  

  

The Graduate Programme for Transcultural Studies of the Cluster of Excellence "Asia and Europe in a Global Context" at Heidelberg University welcomes applications for eight doctoral scholarships.

  

The Graduate Programme for Transcultural Studies offers a monthly scholarship of 1.000 Euro. It further supports scholarship holders in framing their research through advanced courses and individual supervision and mentoring. The scholarships start in the winter term 2011/12 and are granted for two years with the possibility of an extension for an additional year. Half of them are reserved for scholars from Asia.

  

Applicants are expected to propose a doctoral project that can be affiliated with one of the ongoing projects at the Cluster. They must hold an M.A. or equivalent in a discipline of the humanities or social sciences with an above-average grade. Applications, including a CV, a letter of intention, a project proposal, a schedule for the dissertation, and a letter of recommendation are accepted until March 31, 2011, via the Online Application System.

  

For more information about the Graduate Programme for Transcultural Studies and the scholarships see: <http://www.asia-europe.uni-heidelberg.de/en/gpts> or send an e-mail to: [applicat...@asia-europe.uni-heidelberg.de]().

  

Kindly circulate this announcement among prospective candidates.

  

  

Contact: Oliver Lamers, Graduate Programme Manager

Graduate Programme for Transcultural Studies

Cluster of Excellence "Asia and Europe in a Global Context"

Karl Jaspers Centre for Advanced Transcultural Studies

Vossstrae 2, Building 4400, 69115 Heidelberg, Germany

E-Mail: [applicat...@asia-europe.uni-heidelberg.de]()

Website: <http://www.asia-europe.uni-heidelberg.de/en/gpts>

  

Website: <http://www.asia-europe.uni-heidelberg.de/en/gpts>

Primary Category: Humanities

  

Secondary Categories: Anthropology

Archaeology

Area Studies

Art and Art History

Asian History / Studies

Colonial and Post-Colonial History / Studies

Cultural History / Studies

Diplomacy and International Relations

Early Modern History and Period Studies

East Asian History / Studies

Economic History / Studies

Environmental History / Studies

Ethnic History / Studies

European History / Studies

History of Science, Medicine, and Technology

Immigration History / Studies

Intellectual History

Islamic History / Studies

Japanese History / Studies

Maritime History / Studies

Medieval and Byzantine History / Studies

Middle East History / Studies

Music and Music History

Political History / Studies

Social History / Studies

Social Sciences

South Asian History / Studies

Women, Gender, and Sexuality

World History / Studies

  

Posting Date: 02/07/2011

Closing Date 03/31/2011

  

Position: South Asia Collection, Assistant Curator, Yale University Library

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

  

Yale University, Library

  

Assistant Curator for South Asia Collection

  

  

Institution Type: College / University

Location: Connecticut, United States

Position: Librarian

  

  

Assistant Curator for South Asia Collection

South Asia Collection

  

Sterling Memorial Library

Yale University

New Haven, CT

Rank: Librarian I-II

[www.yale.edu/jobs](http://www.yale.edu/jobs)

  

  

  

Fixed Duration:        One (1) year from date of hire

  

Schedule:           Full-time (37.5 hours per week); Standard Work Week (M-F, 8:30-5:00)

  

Yale University offers exciting opportunities for achievement and growth in New Haven, Connecticut. Conveniently located between Boston and New York, New Haven is the creative capital of Connecticut with cultural resources that include two major art museums, a critically-acclaimed repertory theater, state-of-the-art concert hall, and world-renowned schools of Architecture, Art, Drama, and Music.

  

THE UNIVERSITY AND THE LIBRARY

  

One of the world's leading research libraries, Yale University Library is a full partner in teaching, research, and learning at Yale and is visited by scholars from around the world. A distinctive strength is its rich spectrum of resources, including approximately thirteen million volumes and information in all media, ranging from ancient papyri to early printed books to electronic databases. The Library is engaging in numerous projects to expand access to its physical and digital collections. Housed in twenty-two buildings including the Sterling Memorial Library, the Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library, and the new Bass Library, it employs a dynamic and diverse staff of nearly six hundred who offer innovative and flexible services to library readers. To learn more about Yale University Library and its collections and services, visit <http://www.library.yale.edu/>.

  

SOUTH ASIA COLLECTION

  

The South Asia Collection is made of monographs, and serials, as well as visual, archival and manuscript collections that can be found throughout the Yale University Library system. Holding libraries include the Sterling Memorial Library, the Social Science Library, the Divinity Library, Manuscripts and Archives Department as well as the Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library. The Librarys strongest holdings of material on South Asia are in the English language and for the following disciplines: the history of western involvement in South Asia, modern India (from 1947), literature in English, and religion (especially Buddhism and Christianity). The South Asia Collections holdings in Sanskrit and the classical languages of South Asia contain some of the oldest printed holdings among North American libraries. Current South Asian language collections include literature, linguistics and humanities material in Hindi, Tamil, and Urdu.

  

Concerted and combined library collecting and research service efforts over the past 10 years have been conducted to support the graduate and undergraduate teaching and research needs of the faculty and students affiliated with the South Asian Studies Council of the MacMillan Center for International and Area Studies its current India Initiative (see: <http://www.yale.edu/macmillan/southasia/flash.htm>) . The South Asia Collections assistant curators acquisitions and cataloging efforts are supported with one full-time dedicated acquisitions and copy cataloging assistant position whose offices will be housed in the Sterling Memorial Library.

  

POSITION DESCRIPTION

  

Reporting to the Curator of the South and Southeast Asia Collections, the Assistant Curator for South Asia Collection serves as the subject specialist responsible for library support of research and teaching about South Asia-related topics at Yale. The Assistant Curator for the South Asia Collection develops strong working relationships with faculty, students, and affiliated scholars conducting research in Afghanistan, Pakistan, India, Nepal, Bangladesh, Bhutan, and Sri Lanka across departments and programs, taking initiative to identify and meet their expectations for collections and services. Provides reference, research education, research guides and web pages, and consultation on the effective application of new technologies.

  

The Assistant Curator for the South Asia Collection partners with departments and programs on projects that further teaching and scholarship, such as digitization, web publishing, workshops, and other initiatives that enhance the academic mission. Provides public services for the South Asia Collection, serves as a member of the South Asian Studies Council of the MacMillan Center for International and Area Studies, and seeks ways to enhance support for Hindi, Tamil, and Urdu language special collections across the Yale University Library.

  

RESPONSIBILITIES

  

The Assistant Curator for the South Asia Collection is responsible for selection of materials for the South Asia Collection, including fund management, reporting, and management of the acquisitions and cataloging processes. Supervises and works closely with the South Asia Collection

Acquisitions and Cataloging Assistant to insure the effective acquisition, processing, and copy-cataloging of materials in all formats, and interacts with staff in the Preservation department in support of preservation efforts for brittle out-of-print materials in the collection. Provides proactive outreach with the South Asian Studies Council, South Asian Studies faculty, research fellows, language lecturers and students, and collaboration with other library colleagues in relevant departments for selection in this area. Seeks ways to collaborate with South Asia collection colleagues at other institutions to leverage resources and to pursue efforts in cooperative collection development efforts.

  

The Assistant Curator contributes to goal-setting and strategic planning and manages projects in the South and Southeast Asia Collections as assigned. Seeks opportunities to contribute to the Yale University Library through participation in committees, task forces, working groups, and programs. Expected to be active professionally in organizations such as the Committee on South Asian Libraries and Documentation, the North American professional organization for South Asian Studies librarians.

  

Engages actively with professional organizations and literature; keeps abreast of subject matter trends and developments. Participates in and contributes to library long-term planning and serves on various committees and task forces. May be required to participate with disaster recovery efforts. May be assigned to work at West Campus location in West Haven, CT.

  

QUALIFICATIONS

  

Masters degree from an ALA-accredited program for library and information science (preferred) and/or graduate degree in a South Asian Studies-related field. Appointment to the rank of Librarian II requires a minimum of two years of professional experience and demonstrated professional accomplishments appropriate to the rank. Experience teaching in a library or academic setting. Experience creating content for web pages (for use in creating a new South Asia Collection page). Experience with public services, reference, and/or collection development.

  

Excellent communication skills (reading, writing, and speaking) in Hindi, Tamil, or Urdu; Preferred: Ability to read Sanskrit at a high level of proficiency. Ability to communicate in English (reading, writing, and speaking). Broad knowledge of South Asian cultures; Familiarity with the history of and current trends in scholarly research related to South Asian Studies. Knowledge of South Asian book trade is critical. Familiarity with the major bibliographic tools and research methods for South Asian Studies. Familiarity with the sources and approaches in teaching South Asia-related research methods and bibliographic instruction courses. Demonstrated ability to succeed in a collaborative, team-based environment. Demonstrated ability to work collegially and cooperatively within and across organizations. Knowledge of trends in electronic resources and networked access to information, citation management (such as Refworks, EndNote, or Zotero, etc.), and other technologies used by readers and libraries to facilitate information access and management. Demonstrated online outreach skills using key social media sites including, but not limited to, Facebook, Twitter, Flickr, YouTube, and WordPress.

  

Preferred: Supervisory experience. Experience providing training in technical services areas including acquisitions or cataloging software. Demonstrated skills in web site development, RSS, video and audio production, and graphics software; Ability to plan, manage, and coordinate complex projects; demonstrated record of devising and bringing projects to a conclusion in a timely fashion.

  

SALARY AND BENEFITS

  

We invite you to discover the excitement, diversity, rewards and excellence of a career at Yale University. One of the country's great workplaces, Yale University offers exciting opportunities for meaningful accomplishment and true growth. Our benefits package is among the best anywhere, with a wide variety of insurance choices, liberal paid time off, fantastic family and educational benefits, a variety of retirement benefits, extensive recreational facilities, and much more.

  

Applications consisting of a cover letter, resume, and the names of three professional references should be sent by creating an account and applying onlineat [www.yale.edu/jobsfor](http://www.yale.edu/jobsfor) immediate consideration - the STARS req ID for this position is 11999BR.
Please be sure to reference #11999BR in your cover letter.

  

BACKGROUND CHECK REQUIREMENTS

  

All external candidates for employment will be subject to pre-employment background screening for this position, which may include motor vehicle and credit checks based on the position description and job requirements. All offers are contingent on successful completion of a background check. Please visit [www.yale.edu/hronline/careers/screening/faqs.htmlfor](http://www.yale.edu/hronline/careers/screening/faqs.htmlfor) additional information on the background check requirements and process.

  

Yale University is an affirmative action/equal opportunity employer.
Yale values diversity in its faculty, staff, and students and strongly encourages applications from women and members of underrepresented minority groups.

  

  

Contact: Applications consisting of a cover letter, resume, and the names of three professional references should be sent by creating an account and applying onlineat [www.yale.edu/jobsfor](http://www.yale.edu/jobsfor) immediate consideration - the STARS req ID for this position is 11999BR. Please be sure to reference #11999BR in your cover letter.

  

Website: <http://www.library.yale.edu/>

Primary Category: South Asian History / Studies

  

Secondary Categories: Area Studies

  

Posting Date: 02/07/2011

Closing Date 05/05/2011

Position: South Asia/Indian History, Instructor, Kwantlen Polytechnic

University, Surrey, British Columbia

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

Kwantlen Polytechnic University, Social Sciences

  

History Instructor - India

  

  

Institution Type: College / University

Location: British Columbia, Canada

Position: Instructor

  

HISTORY INSTRUCTOR Competition Number 11-05

  

The History Department at Kwantlen Polytechnic University invites applications for a part-time non-regular type2 (temporary) position beginning September 1, 2011. This one-year term position will have an annualized workload of 50% with teaching duties in the fall 2011 and spring 2012 semesters. We seek faculty with expertise and experience to teach in the following areas:

  

Introduction to South Asia

  

Indian History

  

Descriptions of the History Department's courses on South Asia and India can be found online at <http://kwantlen.ca/calendar/courses/histcrs.html>

  

A Ph.D. or equivalent combination of graduate work, research publications, and experience is required.

  

The History Department at Kwantlen Polytechnic University offers a Bachelor of Arts in History. We take great pride in our student-centered approach to learning. Our award-winning faculty members are experts in their fields, passionate professionals who love to teach. Their dedication is the key to creating a challenging and inspiring learning environment. Our bachelors degrees set new standards for collaboration with faculty, workplace experience, and undergraduate research.

  

A complete application includes a covering letter, current curriculum vitae, sample course outlines, peer and student reviews, a statement on teaching philosophy, copies of transcripts of all degrees, and the names of three referees.

  

  

  

  

Contact: Visit our website at [www.kwantlen.ca/hr](http://www.kwantlen.ca/hr) for further information.

  

The deadline for applications is February 28, 2011.

  

Please forward your application quoting the competition number 11-05 to: Human Resource Services, 12666 72 Avenue, Surrey, BC V3W 2M8 or by email to [emp...@kwantlen.ca]()

  

We thank all applicants for their interest in Kwantlen Polytechnic University.

  

However, only those applicants selected for further consideration will be contacted.

  

Website: [www.kwantlen.ca](http://www.kwantlen.ca)

Primary Category: History Education

  

  

New York State Independent College Consortium for Study in India

  

Assistant Director for Fall 2011

  

Institution Type:  College / University

Location:  India

Position:  Other Professional

  

The New York State Independent College Consortium for Study in India (NYSICCSI) seeks an Assistant Director for its undergraduate program in India for the five-month period August 1 through December 31, 2011. The successful candidate will have a Master’s degree or doctoral candidacy in a relevant field, although strong candidates with a Bachelor’s degree will be considered; strong Hindi language skills; experience managing student groups; demonstrated skills in group facilitation, team building, conflict resolution, risk management; and willingness to work flexible hours, including weekends. Compensation includes all associated room, board, travel, and other maintenance expenses during the course of program, international travel to and from India, health insurance, visa fees, and a stipend of $5,000-$7,000, commensurate with qualifications.
Candidates with significant travel experience in North India and knowledge of one or more of the program’s principal field sites are particularly encouraged to apply.

  

Founded in 1989, NYSICCSI provides a study abroad program each fall for a total of 20 students from Colgate University, Hamilton College, Hobart and William Smith Colleges, and St. Lawrence University. The program is based successively in Mussoorie, Jaipur (the longest period of residence), Varanasi, and Delhi, with time spent also in Amritsar, Sarnath, and a variety of other sites. The program is directed by a faculty member from one of the Consortium institutions with the aid of the Assistant Director, who participates fully in the administrative, social, and academic components of the program. Students are exposed to a wide variety of subjects – including art, religion, history, politics, environmental studies, sociology, anthropology, and literature – through formal coursework, local lecturers, and a variety of excursions and fieldtrips. In addition, students study Hindi intensively and complete an independent field work project of their own design.

Contact:

Applications that include a cover letter explaining one’s interest and qualifications and a C.V. can be sent electronically to [mlac...@hamilton.edu]() or mailed to Madeleine La Cotera, NYSICCSI Program Administrator, Hamilton College/NYSICCSI, 198 College Hill Rd., Clinton, NY 13323. Two letters of reference must also be requested and received. For additional information, please contact Ms. La Cotera [(315) 859-4456](tel:(315)%20859-4456).

  

Website: None

Primary Category: South Asian History / Studies

Secondary Categories: Asian History / Studies

Posting Date: 02/03/2011

Closing Date 05/31/2011

University of British Columbia, Department of Asian Studies

  

Lecturer in Hindi-Urdu & Sanskrit Languages

  

  

Institution Type:  College / University

Location:  British Columbia, Canada

Position:  Lecturer

  

The University of British Columbia is accepting applications for one renewable 12-month lecturer position in Hindi-Urdu & Sanskrit languages, commencing July 1, 2011. The successful applicant will be asked to teach 24 credits (4 year-long courses) of Hindi and Sanskrit language courses at all levels. Depending on the applicant's area of expertise, the 24 credit teaching load might include undergraduate lecture courses on South Asian culture, religion, literature or film.

  

Applicants are expected to have a spoken and written command of Hindi, as well as expertise in Sanskrit. Knowledge of Urdu is also desirable. Applicants should possess a Master’s degree in a relevant field, and teaching experience in North America at college/university level; strong preference will be given for applicants with training in Applied Linguistics or Language Education.

  

Please send applications, including a letter of interest, Curriculum Vitae, and three names of reference to: Hindi-Urdu/Sanskrit Lecturer Search Committee, Department of Asian Studies, University of British Columbia, 1871 West Mall, Vancouver, BC Canada V6T-1Z2. Review of applications will begin on March 15, 2011 and will continue until the position is filled.

  

This position is subject to final budgetary approval. UBC hires on the basis of merit and is committed to employment equity. We encourage all qualified persons to apply. However, Canadians and permanent residents of Canada will be given priority. For information about the Department, please visit [www.asia.ubc.ca](http://www.asia.ubc.ca).

  

  

Contact:

Please send applications, including a letter of interest, Curriculum Vitae, and three names of reference to: Hindi-Urdu/Sanskrit Lecturer Search Committee, Department of Asian Studies, University of British Columbia, 1871 West Mall, Vancouver, BC Canada V6T-1Z2.

  

Website: <http://www.asia.ubc.ca/people/vacancies.html>

Primary Category: Languages

Secondary Categories: Asian History / Studies

South Asian History / Studies

Posting Date: 02/02/2011

Closing Date 04/30/2011

University of Haifa, Department of Asian Studies

  

Assistant or Associate Professor, Modern Indian Studies

  

  

Institution Type:  College / University

Location:  Israel

Position:  Assistant Professor

  

The University of Haifa - Assistant or Associate Professor

  

Location: Haifa, Israel

Institution Type: University

Position Type: Assistant or Associate Professor

Submitted: Tuesday, February 1, 2011

  

Main Category: Modern Indian Studies

Secondary Categories: Economics, international relations, history, anthropology, sociology, and cultural studies.

  

The Department of Asian Studies at The University of Haifa invites applications for a tenure-track appointment at the Assistant and Associate Professor level (Martze, Martze Bachir) in Modern Indian Studies. We are particularly interested in applicants whose scholarship focuses on modern India in the disciplines of economics, international relations, history, anthropology, sociology, cultural studies, and related fields. The successful candidate will be joining a young and vibrant department, which concentrates on modern Asia, has a vigorous research culture, and whose faculty and graduate students have made significant contributions to scholarship in a wide range of areas. The appointment will commence on October 1, 2011, subject to budgetary approval. For further information visit our website: <http://asia.haifa.ac.il>

  

  

  

Applicants must have a completed Ph.D., or be near completion (completed by autumn 2011), and demonstrate considerable promise in research, teaching, and scholarly publication. Applicants should send: (1) a letter of application, (2) a full C.V., (3) evidence of teaching ability, (4) three letters of recommendation (should be sent directly by the referees), and (5) a writing sample to the following address:

  

Chair, Department of Asian Studies

  

The University of Haifa

  

Mount Carmel

  

Haifa 31905

  

Israel



  

Applications will be reviewed on March 30, 2011; position open until filled. In accordance with Israeli immigration requirements, this advertisement is directed in the first instance to Israeli citizens and permanent residents. Nevertheless applications by all qualified candidates are welcome. The University of Haifa is committed to the principles of employment equality.

  

  

Contact:

Chair, Department of Asian Studies

  

The University of Haifa

  

Mount Carmel

  

Haifa 31905

  

Israel

  

Website: <http://asia.haifa.ac.il/english/index-eng.htm>

Primary Category: Asian History / Studies

Secondary Categories: Social Sciences

Posting Date: 01/31/2011

Closing Date 04/30/2011

Call for manuscripts: US, Asia and the World, 1620-1914, \_Edcuation About Asia\_ (EAA), Fall 2011

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

From: Education About Asia \<[ed...@utc.edu]()\>

  

  

Call for Manuscripts: US, Asia, and the World, 1620?1914. EAA Fall 2011

(Economic History Topics Encouraged)

  



Education About Asia (EAA) is the peer-reviewed teaching journal of the

Association for Asian Studies. Our readers include undergraduate instructors

as well as high school and middle school teachers. Our articles are intended

to provide educators, who are often not specialists, with basic

understanding of Asia-related content. Qualified referees evaluate all

manuscripts submitted for consideration. A large number of our readers teach

some form of world history, but some of our secondary school teachers are

also responsible for US History.

  

  

We are in the process of developing a special section entitled "US, Asia,

and the World, 1620-1914" for the fall 2011 issue of EAA. In this special

section, we invite authors to submit manuscripts that encompass a wide range

of US-Asia topics that focus upon interactions and significant events,

drawing from diverse areas of study including the arts, diplomacy and

politics, economics, military history, and society and culture. We are

looking for manuscripts concerning all areas of Asia. We seek manuscripts

both from historians of Asia and scholars and teachers with expertise on the

US and other parts of the world. We are especially interested in manuscripts

where authors address US-Asia interactions that proved to have global

impact.

  

Prospective authors should be aware that approximately fifty percent of our

readers are secondary or middle school teachers and the remainder of our

subscribers teach at the college or university levels. We are most

interested in manuscripts that are useful for introductory survey-level

courses at both the secondary and undergraduate levels. Please consult the

EAA guidelines, available on the website under my signature, before

submitting a manuscript for this special section. Pay particular attention

to feature and teaching resources manuscript word-count ranges. The length

of an EAA manuscript is 2,500 to 3,500 words (ten to fourteen double-spaced

pages). Prospective authors are also encouraged to share possible manuscript

ideas with me via email. The deadline for initial submission of manuscripts

is May 10, 2011.

  

  

Cordially,

  

Lucien Ellington

  

Editor, Education About Asia

302 Pfeiffer Stagmaier Hall

University of Tennessee at Chattanooga

Chattanooga, TN 37403

Phone [(423) 425-2118](tel:(423)%20425-2118), Fax [(423) 425-5441](tel:(423)%20425-5441)

Email: [l-ell...@comcast.net]()

Website: <http://www.asian-studies.org/>

