+++
title = "021 Dr.BVK Sastry (Gmail)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (Gmail)	2013-11-14, 00:40:44 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/JiI4Yv7iVnk)]]



Namaste



I am appreciative of the views expressed below reading : \< **What is required is collaboration-** On the one side there is a **necessity to join the hands together**, so that there are **no duplication of efforts**.

On the other hand, the **researchers may like to develop the same tool following different algorithms.** For example, if we take English language, there are dozens of parsers for English being developed following different approaches. Many of them are available either under open source, or for research purpose, or as an online tool.-- What I observe is many enthusiasts start the work on Sanskrit, but once they encounter the complexity the language poses, their enthusiasm dies. -- The code is in nascent stage. There are around 50 known issues. I am trying to create a page where it will be proactively disclosed. --
**This is precisely the reason why everybody ends up reinventing the wheel**. I see at least three sandhi machines already developed by JNU / HCU / TDIL. There may be many others. But **as long as the information is in closed domain, there is no scope to modify it for one's individual need.** \>



I have specific questions: (Please feel free to correct e ; I do not claim all knowingness or infallibility).



Question 1: Is there a consolidated state of the art review ( for the period 1970 to 2013) on Samskrutham Language modeling for Computer related work – As an Indian Tradition ( beyond the Harvard school thoughts reflected in Sanskrit Computational linguistics analysis ? To the best of my knowledge, the work in this area has been isolated and fragmented efforts, addressing only peripherals of Paninian rules. This is not sufficient to address any real issue related to Devanagari script or Samskrutham or the Indian languages needs.



Question 2: How do we get ‘collaboration’ with the Indian teams hear, to explore \< different approaches and algorithms> to pursue the issues and deliver practical implementable sustainable solutions ?
Productivity and Research are not always best suited for Open Source deliberation !



Regards

BVK Sastry





> 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > With regards,  
> > Amba Kulkarni > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 





> 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > > --  
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

















------------------------------------------------------------------------

No virus found in this message.  
Checked by AVG - [www.avg.com](http://www.avg.com)  
Version: 2014.0.4158 / Virus Database: 3629/6833 - Release Date: 11/13/13

