+++
title = "022 Dr.BVK Sastry (Gmail)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (Gmail)	2013-11-14, 00:40:44 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/JiI4Yv7iVnk)]]



Namaste



Responding On \< Due to limitations of resources, change of platforms and lack of support/patronage they all cannot reach users. \> What may we all do together for changing this scenario of ‘Samskrutham in Cyber space of 21 st century’ ?? 



1. There has been so much change in the platforms, OS, Applications and
program interfaces in computers since 1990. It is imperative that there has to be a pro-active ‘catching up ‘ work and required support for this. Technology deployment, guided by market forces will not be waiting for the ‘Guru’s approval and blessings’. The language user known to Patanjali did not wait for the grammarian to give the right kind f manufactured words for usage.



2. When such a support is lacking , does it mean that we need to abandon the earlier work, where it was previously stopped ?

Especially when we are looking at a language (Samskrutham) which has not changed its rule base or the operational model for over three plus millennia ?



3. The scenario of efforts in exploring the 80’s statement
‘Sanskrit is the best language for computers’ seem to be resting happily as a good quote for emotional sooth-saying. If one compares the strides of English in the world of IT /BT/LT fields, the dent of Sanskrit in computer areas is not even in the micro scale to be recognized. And even here, the major contribution has come from ‘Beyond India initiatives’, ‘Who have drawn and tapped Indian traditional resources’ to show the potential.



4. The scenario opens up inviting questions related to the goal: What will Samskrutham contribute to Technology ? where the tangible measures are to be in relation to the factors like productivity, employment generation, programming et al – which is beyond the ‘ esoteric, soft , cultural goals like preservation of Vedas and the like’.



 These goals are no doubt important ; but they do fall in to Special interest group areas which need to be funded and supported by special interest communities in a ‘Secular State’ ( ?!) –and this applies mostly and specially only to Samskrutham (!?). One may also seek how many institutions that need ‘Vedas’-‘Samskrutham’ critically for their existential needs have provided support funds proactively for work in this area ?



5. A state of the art scenario- review is an immediate need so that the directions for future research as a master blue print can be drawn.



6. Nature abhors vacuum. Similarly society will embrace any available immediately deployable solution, even when it may not be perfect and
may have long term consequences, even detrimental. ( Eg. Gutka !) Why blame it ? The focus needs to be in providing a timely workable alternative with the available resources.



How may we all work together for this cause of ‘Samskrutham in Cyber space of 21 st century’ ??



Regards

BVK Sastry 



