+++
title = "001 Dr ramanath"

+++
[[Dr ramanath	2009-11-28, 00:31:34 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/KqpU5nOriQw)]]



Topic : Use of Sanskrit on digital machines  
  
Dear Scholars  
Namaskar  
  
Now, I want to say something with due regards on some earlier  
postings. According to Prof. Joshi his purpose of posting is to bring  
out different dimensions of Sanskrit that can be promoted. I  
appreciate his thoughts. I am agree with Prof. Joshi’s statement : ‘‘  
Digital computers do not understand meanings of words of any language.  
They are rule based machines and hence suitable within limits of  
making use of rule based grammar and syntax (that too simple syntax)  
for word processing. This use of Sanskrit on digital machines has  
nothing to do with Dharma, Adharma and Moksha.’’  
  
Sanskrit grammar is fully scientific because AstAdhyAyi starts from  
Mahesvara sutras. All aphorisms of AstAdhyAyi are based upon these 14  
aphorisms. Thus Paninian grammar is just like rule based machines.  
Prof. Joshi’s statement ‘‘there were many grammarians before Panini.  
There are different grammars of Sanskrit with modifications. Sanskrit  
scholars know that. I am searching beyond all these features.’’ is  
correct . But with due respect here I point out that although there  
are several grammarians before or after Panini but no one is so  
scientific as Panini is. If we talk about Sanskrit language and  
grammar then there is no question of going beyond Panini. There is  
only need of becoming flexible, it means we should not too rigid  
towards rules prescribed by Panini rather than this should be based  
upon general usage. What we have to do is that first we should form  
certain rules on the basis of Paninian grammar that should include  
basic rules plus grammatical agreement or exceptional cases. These  
should be flexible, simple and easy in computing. Secondly these rules  
should be feed in computer software through computational technology.  
Thus there is need of interdisciplinary function. The computational  
grammar is also man made rather the machine made. The Sanskrit grammar  
is neither arts nor literature, it is just like mathematics or science  
where always the result will be 2+2=4. So it needs to use mathematical  
techniques in the development of computational analysis and  
engineering methodology, in solving the various problems related to  
Sanskrit grammar. For example ‘Information technology’, information is  
based on technology or technology is based on information ? This is  
very difficult question. Because both are interlinked . The ‘words can  
give information about something but it is further subject to test  
through sensation or reasoning. Once it is proved to be true, it  
becomes knowledge. So, there is a difference between a source of  
information and a source of knowledge. ‘Words’ can be a source of  
information without being the source of knowledge. The ‘texts’ yield  
knowledge only when the statements given in them are valid arguments.  
If the statements fail to support the arguments, then they do not  
yield knowledge. So, the ,texts, are also fallible. The use of  
Sanskrit on digital machines has relevance with Dharma, Adharma and  
Moksha If the statements support the arguments. Thus I agree that we  
should not accept the validity of words either of scriptures or man  
made text merely out of reverence but it should be examine carefully,  
just as people examine the purity of gold by burning it in fire,  
cutting it, and testing it on a touchstone :  
tApAc chedAc ca nikshat suvarnam iva panditah,  
parikshya bhikshavo grAhyam mad-vaco na tu gauravat. TSP  
Bhart‚hari admits the utility of inference and reasoning in day to day  
life. He states that even perception has no validity without  
inference. It is quite difficult to observe all properties of a thing,  
we can merely observe some of them, rest of the properties can be  
inferred through the reasoning :  
durlabhaŠ kasyacilloke sarvÈvayavadar„anam,  
kai„cittvavayavaird‚—airarthaÌ k‚tsnoanumÏyate - VÈkyapadÏya II -  
34  
  
  
Of course we are not happy merely with these type of statements that  
Sanskrit is great etc. unless we do not use them in our day to day  
life. I mean whatever we read or teach that should be linked with  
global world. In this way, the questions raised by some scholars some  
days before (plight of Darshana studies in our universities) can be  
solve if we stress on quality production instead of quantity in the  
various fields of Sanskrit specially Some Sastras, can be solve upto  
some extent. If we accept the scientific nature of Sanskrit  
VarNamaalaa then obiviously Panini’s grammar is fully scientific in  
its nature, there is no doubt about it. And if it is so scientific  
then why it can not be capable in computational technology? Any  
quality based production either has produced from Indian or foreigner  
does not matter. These all depend upon this that the produced  
materials are from Sanskrit sources or not? We should not talk about  
any individual or certain ethnic groups. All are single entity. We all  
are part of present global system. The research paper of Rick Briggs  
has references from various sources from Sanskrit literature itself as  
it reflect from the title of the paper : "Knowledge representation in  
Sanskrit" published by Rick Briggs in 1985 should have come first from  
Indian Sanskrit scholars. The only problem with Indian scholars is  
that here in India they are facing various implications due to the  
present system. Indian scholars look for certificate of greatness of  
Sanskrit not only from foreigners but from Indians too, it all depends  
upon specialty of the scholars concerned.  
  
Thanks with  
due regards  
Ramanath Pandey  
The M.S.University of Baroda.  
Gujarat, India  
  
  

