+++
title = "000 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2017-02-05, 17:29:28 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/SPk6jDLqR3Y)]]



Feb 4, 2017



Respected Scholars, Namaskar!

Yesterday using my new gmail address I tried to post my article on BVP. It did not go through. I will figure out the cause. In the meantime I using my Juno email to post my article. Please bear with me. NRJOSHI.

----------------------------------------



Feb 3, 2017

Respected scholars,

Please express your opinions on the posting below.



The following information is taken from the book of Mantrini Prasad (Language of Nirukta). Yaask calls language of his time Bhaas'aa and that of Vedas Adhyaaya, similar to PaNini's Bhaas'aa and Chandas.

(A) From the Vedic phase of the language to the classical phase of the language, one finds gradual disappearance of the rich variety of the grammatical forms. All Vedic peculiarities of the language have vanished by the time of Yaska. In classical phase a standardized form comes to represent many niceties of an earlier phases.

(B)The **r** sound in some of the Vedic vocables has been replaced by **l** sound in the later period.

(C) Vedic vocables having **gh**, **bh**, and **dh** sounds have been reduced to **h **sound in the later period.

(D) Vedic peculiarities of declension and conjugation are removed. Verbal bases used by Yaska show classes of the classical stage. In certain cases these are neither of the Vedic period nor of the classical.

(E) Only the –tum form of infinitives and –tvā of gerunds survive. All other varieties of infinitives have been rendered by their corresponding declensional forms.

In the book in addition to etymology offered by Yaska on words the views of many other scholars such as Sāyaņ, Monier Williams, Rajawade, Skandasvāmin and Maheşvara, Lakshman Sarup, Siddheshvara Varma are also included.

In many cases they differ from each other and differ from Yāska. Sanskrit at the time of Yaska had dialectical varieties. It makes etymological efforts even more difficult.

My opinion--Information which is certain tends to become uncertain with passage of time. Sanskrit appears to be no exception to this observationof Information theory. The principle of Least Action also works in the flow language. Yaaska himself has discussed how changes take place. Varņa āgama (entry of new phoneme), varņa viparyaya (change, or dissociation, or variation of varna), varņa vikāra (distortion of varna), varņa nāśa (total loss or annihilation of a varņa), and arthātiśayena yogah (addition of varņa which causes shift in the meaning of the dhātu (root form of verb).

Thanks. NRJOSHI

