+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-09-06, 21:15:14 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/-F4cpCEs-fo)]]



<https://sites.google.com/site/kalyan97/indus-script-cipher?pli=1>(Updated with the review on Sept. 6, 2010)

  

[](https://sites.google.com/site/kalyan97/indus-script-cipher?pli=1)---------- Forwarded message ----------  
From: **S. Kalyanaraman** \<[kaly...@gmail.com]()\>  
Date: Mon, Sep 6, 2010 at 11:25 AM  
Subject: Fwd: Book review  
To: "Narahari B Achar (nachar)" \<[nac...@memphis.edu]()\>  
  
  

धन्योस्मि

धन्यवादःकल्याणरामन

  

I am humbled, yet overwhelmed by your review, Prof. Narahari Achar ji. I have been struggling with the script problem for nearly 30 years now. I don't know if I have conveyed the messages of our pitr-s and maatr-s effectively to reach our children. I feel like a toddler learning to crawl.

  

About one thing, I feel reassured. Our next generation shall no longer be singing the refrain, 'the indus script has not been deciphered so far.' The literature which is our heritage is so enormous, we can't even skim the surface of the ocean of jnaanam left for us to unravel, be it Bharata's Natya Shastra, be it Panini or Patanjali, be they many NighanTus, be they many Prakrit grammars, be it Tolkaappiyan or Hemachandra Acharya's Deshi Naamamaalaa orSiddhanti Subrahmanya S’astri’s new interpretation of the Amarakos’a, Bangalore, Vicaradarpana Press, 1872 which refers to a gloss:aduru. 'ore taken from the mine and not subjected to melting in a furnace.' Rebus word, adar in Santali means 'bos indicus, brahmani bull or zebu'. Many such gemstones of our cultural heritage wait to be identified :)--  

  

What a privilege it is to spend a life-time studying our heritage. One life-time is not enough. We owe so much to our pitr-s and maatr-s who have given us our identity. What more can one ask for in life? It will be a life fulfilment if further studies in the formation and evolution of Indian languages are promoted with this book on Indus Script Cipher submitted at the feet of Mahaakaala, in all humility and with a deep sense of trepidation. Mahaakaala is inexorable; that Mahaakaala has to give us the anugraham to move forward.

  

namaskaram.

  

kalyanaraman

  
  
  

---------- Forwarded message ----------  
From: **Narahari B Achar (nachar)** \<[nac...@memphis.edu]()\>  
Date: Mon, Sep 6, 2010 at 10:24 AM  
Subject: Book review  
To: "[kaly...@gmail.com]()" \<[kaly...@gmail.com]()\>  
  
  
Kalyanji,  
attached please find a short review of your epoch-making work  
Regards  
Narahari

  

A review of thebook by Dr. Narahari Achar  

Words such as ‘monumental’,‘ground breaking’, and ‘unique’ are totally inadequate to describe this book. Dr. Kalyanaraman brings his “Vyasa-like” knowledgebase, evident in his previous publications, ”Indian Lexicon”, “Sarasvati” and the “Indian Alchemy-Soma in the Veda” to bear upon deciphering the Indus script. He starts with a clean slate, unencumbered by suffocating assumptions. He avoids the pit falls about the language (Dravidian, Indo-aryan, Samskrita) which the Indus inscriptions represent, but brings in ‘mlechcha’. He shuns the theories of movement of peoples (AIT, OIT, etc.) but uses the pragmatic concept of cultural interaction of people speaking different language groups. He is not trapped by using only the signs of the Indus inscriptions, but uses the entire set of figures and signs in his decipherment. He uses the Rebus method and succeeds where a previous hundred attempts have failed. His deciphering of the symbols ‘Swastika ‘ and ‘Jar’ as representing the zinc ore and a ‘furnace scribe’ or ‘brass worker’ respectively is revealing. The evidence that there existed a very advanced culture of materials science and technology in ancient India comes from the work of Dr. C S R Prabhu from Hyderabad. Dr. Prabhu has produced , based on the recipe from Bharadwajamuni’s “Vimana shastra”, an alloy of copper harder than steel, an alloy of copper resistant to sea water, a light-absorbing alloy, among others. Dr. Kalyanaraman’s deciphering would help in understanding the advanced knowledge base that existed.

I wonder whether the script itself be called the ‘Sarasvati’ script. All scripts in India are named after the goddess, ‘sharada’, ‘brahmi’ etc….

I cannot leave the book without a feeling of awe and admiration for Dr. Kalyanaraman, whom I regard as a mentor particularly in investigations regarding the date of the Mahabharata war..

B. N. Narahari Achar

Professor of Physics

University of Memphis

September 6, 2010

  

