+++
title = "002 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-12-30, 17:10:07 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/yM_fiqdYMlY)]]



It will be a privilege indeed to read Dr. Sharma's article.

  

Quote begins:

  

Internationally acclaimed research scholar in Vedanta philosophy, B. N. K. Sharma, passed away in Mumbai recently after a brief illness. Born on June 9, 1909, B. N. Krishnamurthy Sharma hailed from a family of Sanskrit scholars. He was proficient in Sanskrit (Devanagari as well as Nandi Nagari) and Ardha Maagadhi. His grandfather, Kochhi Rangappachaarya, was the court Sanskrit pandit at the Cochin Durbar.

  
Even as a student at the University of Madras, under Sri Kuppuswami Shastri, Sharma was trained by Swami Sathyadhyana Tirtha of of the Uttaraadi Math, in the art and technique of winning debates.

  
Sharma, who began his career at the Annamalai University (Chidambaram) as a Sanskrit lecturer, rose to become the Principal of Raja’s College, Tiruvaiyaru, and later served in various capacities for the cause of Sanskrit education and philosophical research at Hoshiarpur, Udipi, Kumta and Dharwar. He was Head of the Department of Sanskrit, D. G. Ruparel College, Mumbai, (1953-74) where he retired from service.

  
Sharma has authored more than 25 classical works apart from over 150 research papers on Vedanta philosophy in general and Dwaita in particular. His works are acclaimed as trendsetters in the neo-Vedanta Research. His greatest contribution is his three-volume publication of the commentaries on the Brahma Sutras by the three acharyas — Sankara, Ramanuja and Madhwa. Sharma was the recipient of many awards and honours from the Government of India and also from abroad including the Central Sahitya Akademi award...

  

See his photograph and read on at<http://shreevaartha.org/blog/index.php/category/divine-experiences/>  
  
  

2010/12/30 Raghavendra \<[rv...@rediffmail.com]()\>



