+++
title = "000 R. Narayana iyengar"

+++
[[R. Narayana iyengar	2011-12-03, 15:13:22 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/DhnETkfonqM)]]



This is regarding theworkshop organized by the International Centre for Theoretical Sciences of TIFR. The event wasinterdisciplinarywith Archaeology and ancient India as the focus. The speakers had been assigned atopic to talk for45-50 minutes.I was invited to talkon "Understanding the astronomy of ancient texts". My presentation was about scientific astronomical information in the Vedas, (not the well known Lagadha's Vedanga Jyotisha).The audience was a select group of archaeologists, indologists, scientists,..... I explained my (adhidaiva) approach by presenting two verifiable examples. First, I spoke on how by analyzing some of the primary Vedic texts with secondary support from the BrahmaaNDa PuraaNa we can conclude that the Rigvedic seers knew about the 18-year eclipse period in a very basic form and how they could have counted the number 3339. Thesimulation (pratiika)of this in the darsha-puurNamaasa rites as the 'antarvedi'becomes almost obvious. The second example was about my argument that the Yajurvedic people knew Abhaya-dhruva as their pole star. The first example is more intricate where as the second is straight forward. There was extensive discussion on the Pole star andhence the chronology (c 2800BC)that should be assigned to the tradition of the Taittiriiya AraNyaka. Some of the select audience of about 30 were surprised that Keith and Whitney should haveignored the Tai. araNyaka text! Ihad clarified(to a question) that the "shishumara" constellationwas one of the earliest star groups recognized as an animal figure. (The other being R.ksha the Bear later called Saptarshi). Also that it ismentioned in the Panchavimsha Br. text that 'sharkara saaman' connected with the"shishumara"is usefulin navigating theseas.Additionally Brahmanda Purana ststes that the last four stars (agni, Indra, Kasyapa and dhruva) of the shishumara constellation with 14 stars do not set. On this, thepleasantly surprisingdiscussion (as far as I am concerned) was from M.Kenoyera famous archaeologist of the Harappan civilization. He showed a Harappan seal in which an alligator (Gharial) is shown in the upper register above a flat bottomed boat. His view (as far as I could understand) was that the alligator was a celestial symbolof the "shishumara".He also showed another seal in which the 'celestial' alligator is holding a "circular hariy wheel likefigure" most likely a cometary object. \[Quite interestingly the AdbhutaBrahmana text mentionsthe possibility of a comet masking the Saptarshi. Naturally lot morework hasto be done to understand the Vedas from a scientific view point\]



My appeal to research scholars in our Samskrit Universities and Departments interested in "Vedic science". Please study Vedas in relation to the information containedin the PuraNas, the Mahabharataand known ancient history including the Indus Civilization.



I am attaching the pdf file of mytalk for those interested in the topic.





On Sat, Dec 3, 2011 at 1:58 PM, rniyengar \<[narayana...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

>   
>   
>   
> ---------- Forwarded message ----------  
> From: rniyengar \<[narayana.iyen...@gmail.com]()\>  
> Date: Nov 11, 11:11am  
> Subject: International workshop  
> To: भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्  
>   
>   
> TIFR is organizing a workshop colourfully called "FutureofPast"  
> during 22-26 November at Mangalore. You can get more details at  
>   
> <http://www.icts.res.in/additional_page/410/>  
>   
> RN Iyengar

  

