+++
title = "004 Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma"

+++
[[Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma	2010-07-28, 05:28:31 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/swp1qPcxa40)]]



Dear All,  
  
There is indeed the need of organized campaign to enlighten the citizens of India that is Bharatam regarding the responsibility of preserving and perpetuating the contents of our National Epics in their pristine glory. These are the integral part of our National Heritage. Welcome to the very sensitive and really sensible observations of Sri Jagannatha.  

  
\>We have to take Samskrita Valmiki Ramayana AS IT IS.  
  

Many are the regional poets who are elevated to the status of Maha Kavis by their works which are born of Moola Ramayana inspiration.  
Whether it is the Adhyatma-Ramayanam of Tunjath Ezhuthachan(Kerala) which has gathered the hallow of being a "parayana grantha" especially during the month of Karkataka, the Kamba-Ramayanam of Kambar(Tamil Nadu) or such sanctified Texts of other States, the one common quality is the spiritual empowerment these texts are capable of. Be that due to the faith factor.  
However, the point being highlighted here is that none of these texts present( this is a general statement, subject to correction)any perverted idea or image of the Epic Hero and other sattvik characters. This means that 1)these authors kept the Moola Ramayanam in high esteem2) that they new very well that the Epics and Epic Poems have the spiritual-cultural role of providing the SAMSKARAS to their generation and the posterity.3) that they did not pose or provide another reading, version or perversion of the Original Epics. 4)that they had taken/ learnt Samskrita Ramayana AS IT IS.  
  
>How long we, the citizens of India shall tolerate pervertingactivities of Ramayana story?  
  
Added to such perverting activities we have also avowed Hussains awaiting "Bharata-Ratna" who have spread their canvass to striptease Bharata Mata, Sita Mata (except Hussain's Mata or Prophet's Mata) and caricature Anjaneya and other Holy Indian Forms in utterly derogatory colors and hues.  
  
Thanks to Hindu Jagaran Samithi whose website within 3 years have gathered 1 Lakh monthly visitors from 175 countries; and who are holding frequent webinars on relevant topics related to our National Hindu Celebrations(in full breath I can put it like this here!).  
I am sure that they will understand the spirit of Ramayana AS IT IS if BVP appeals them to take up the campaign.   
  
BVP also can consider holding SKYPE Satsanga among like minded members on such topics duly planned and announced. Thus BVP can become a platform to raise voice besides recording thoughts.  
प्रणाम:  
  
  
  

2010/7/27 Jagannatha s \<[jgra...@gmail.com]()\>



  
  
  
--  
Aangirasa/Dr.S.Ramakrishna Sharma. M.A.,Ph.D.(Eng.Lit.),Ph.D.(Sanskrit.).  

