+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-12-09, 18:09:25 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/flM-YyCZCBo)]]



Notice on M. Witzel (9 Dec. 2010)

  

Wondrous witch-hunter Witzel has struck again! He has with few words turned aperfectly normal Archaeological Conference (Delhi 25-27 Nov '10) into a "hindutva"convention (whatever he understands by this term). As usual, this vṛjina vādín ignores thelarger and obvious reality of the presence of many of the most important Indianarchaeologists. There was Lal himself who taught for many years in California and was partof the establishment, even by Witzel’s standard, until he repudiated the mainstreamlinguistic doctrine of the Aryan Invasion Theory. There were also other distinguishedarchaeologists – Bisht, Cakrabarti, Dikshit, Mani, J. Nath, P. Singh, Sonawane and manyothers including Prof (Mrs) Nilofar Shaikh, Vice-Chancellor of Shah Abdul Latif University,

Khairpur, Sindh-Pakistan. Witzel’s insulting outburst must be due to his uncontrollabledrive for distortion and deception. Further, we must suppose that (a) he is bitter because hewas not invited to participate and (b) he is vengeful because his Doctrine of the AIT wasshown yet again by all these archaeologists to be a psychotic obsession. One wonders at thisphenomenon and why Harvard continues to employ a man whose mind is muzzy withmūḍhamati and mendacity and whose perpetual purpose is perversion of truth.

  

N. Kazanas,Director,Omilos Meleton,Athens.

