+++
title = "001 Dr. Tirumala Kulakarni"

+++
[[Dr. Tirumala Kulakarni	2012-01-04, 14:07:16 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/kPDB2qFfkZU)]]



Dears

I request each and every member of this group to go to this site i.e.  
<http://tdil-dc.in/san> and test various tools with different entries.

On 1/4/12, Devanand Shukl \<[dev....@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  
\>\>  
\>\> This is to inform you that following tools developed by our consortium  
\>\>\> are now available on TDIL Data Center at <http://tdil-dc.in/san>

By the by, the website will be inaugurated by the Prime Minister on  
5th Jan during the inaugural function of the World Sanskrit Conference  
at Delhi.

\>\>\> Transliteration  
Visit this for लिप्यन्तरणम्. One of the most important use is you can  
get roman diacritic data by giving Unicode and other specified data.  
Ex. रामो राजीवलोचनः becomes rāmo rājīvalocanaḥ with in seconds.

\>\>\> Sandhi generator  
Make students and beginners aware of this tool.

\>\>\> sandhi splitter

\>\>\> Morph analyser  
This is पदविश्लेषकम्. Give words and get amazing answers. I have tried  
with it. Normally for any given word we get unexpected multiple  
answers! Use this tool to get familiar with the richness of Sanskrit.

\>\>\> Morph generator

At the end if you find any wrong answers or if you have any  
suggestions send them to "amba kulkarni" \<[ambap...@gmail.com]()\>.

Thanks

TK  
\>\>  
\>  
\> धन्यवादः

\> \*DR. DEVANAND SHUKL\*

  
--  
Dr. Tirumala Kulakarni  
Asst. Prof. Alankara Dept.  
Poornaprajna Vidyaapeetha  
Vidyapeetha Circle  
BANGALORE 560 028  
Ph: [+91 9448879734](tel:+91%2094488%2079734)  

