+++
title = "016 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2012-02-11, 07:20:13 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/kPDB2qFfkZU)]]



adoption of words from other languages per se is not reprehensible. But Sanskrit, as a mother of all languages, has a distinctive nature, which is necessarily to be protected. Therefore, words (foreign) should not be adopted but absorbed. For example, what is the origin of 'wikipedia'? Are there any nearest equivalents? etc. are to be taken into account; and it will be best to use those equivalents which will catch up after some time. For example, the word 'valency' in chemistry. I have used 'valanashakti'; for 'proton' , 'protha' , etc. Even English is a derivative of Sanskrit only. Thus we may coin new words also absorbing the concepts involved. Mere adoption will give rise to confusion at a later stage, how the word was 'born'. If the origin of the 'words' cannot be explained meaningfully, or if the language has no capability of pruducing words to meet new challenges then such a language meets its natural death.



Sanskrit, fortunately for us, is not such a language. A good linguist can use it for all applications. With the above in mind, I had suggested the names. Else, tomorrow new Webers, Jacobis, etc. will be born even in India and drawing swords against using of Sanskrit. Very few Indian scholars, like D.R.BHANDARKAR, V.RAGHAVAN, V.S.SUKTHANKARhave challenged these critics. They should be remembered with utmost reverence.



As regards familiarity, how familiar was the word 'wikipaedia' ten years back? email itself is not even twenty-five year old. The first ever Computer conference was organised by me, as the Hon. Secretary of Bangalore Insurance Institute; and Council Member of the Insurance Institute of India, on 25th August 1984 in Bangalore (Ravindra Kalakshetra) with a keynote address by Prof. V.Rajaraman from the IISC, Bangalore. It was attended by about 300 delegates from all over the country. Seeing its success, Dr. Rig Brigs wanted that I should organise another conference; since he wanted 150,000 Sanskrit Scholars for his Language project. It was held in Bangalore in Oct.1984 in Shankarmutt, under the auspices of the Computer Society of Inda under the supervision of Prof. Mahabala, President of CSI, and Dr. Paramananda Bharati (former Faculty Member of IIT, MADRAS).



It was Dr. Rig Briggs of NASA, who declared that Sanksrit is best suited for knowledge representation in Computers; and that Sanskrit would be the lingua franca of the future, because it is the only language wherein there is no scope for ambiguity on account of the Karika system. But scores of our own pandits spoke there asserting that Sanskrit is full of ambiguity. It was only H.H. Sri Rangapriya Swamiji (formerly Prof. H.S.Varadadeshikachar, Head of the Dept. of Sanksrit, National College, Bangalore) who silenced all such objections; and held up the eminence of Sanskrit.



Till then the position of Sanskrit had touched a nadir. It was considered a Brahmins' language. And with the Intelligent Students taking up Engineering and Medicine, Sankrit, studied only as a second language, was not given any importance. When I organised the first Samskrit Coversation Class in Central College, in 1955-57, a one-and-a-half our session twice a week, fighting the opposition of the college authorities, hardly 45 of my classmates out of 158 registered for the same. The classes were conducted by one Sri B.Shamanna. B.A., F.C.A., Retired Accountant General of Sri Lanka; who spent his money in printing simple books in Sankrit for the love of Sanskrit. I understand that many have taken Doctorates in Saskrit with his help. The youthful strife of the septuagenerian in spreading Sanskrit cannot be forgotten.



Today things have changed much and are changing. Why I have quoted this in detail is to bring home the truth why Sanskrit is being promoted elsewhere. Nasa was entrusted to prepare an anti-missile missile for star-wars to fight against the communist Russia. The project was not quite successful, because the language- instructions was translated into the machine code because the computers failed to recognised the Case (vibhakti) in which the words were used. They tried all the languages; and they failed, except Sanskrit. It was a 5 million-dollar at that time.



So I would request all the scholars to bear the distinctive features of Sanskrit in mind in assimilating foreign words; and as a rule, to find or formulate equivalents as far as possible rather than merely adopting them as it is. The words, if useful, will definitely catch up the imagination of people. As emails and 'SMS'es have caught up in recent years.



s.r.krishna murthy.

  

2012/2/10 Dr. Rajendra Bhatnagar \<[bra...@gmail.com]()\>



