+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-10-30, 05:26:25 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/YT_DvJfQIuA)]]



Position: Post-doctoral one year appointment, Women's Studies (with Asian/  
Asian=-American specialization),Pennsylvania State University  
\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*  
  
  
The Pennsylvania State University, Women's Studies  
  
Womens Studies Post-Doctorial Position with Specialization in Asian/Asian-American Studies  
  
  
Institution Type:College / University  
Location: Pennsylvania, United States  
Position: Post-Doctoral Fellow  
  
  
The Department of Womens Studies at Penn State University welcomes applications for a one-year post-doctoral position to beginAugust 2011. We seek candidates with demonstrated research and teaching abilities in women/gender studies with a sub-specialty in Asian/Asian American Studies. Preference will be given to candidates with a disciplinary background in history or candidates whose research and teaching reflect strong historical approaches. We are most interested in candidates with a Ph.D at the time of appointment however ABDs who are close to completion will be considered. The position is in the Department of Womens Studies, with the possibility of teaching courses in Asian Studies. The teaching load is 2/2.  
  
  
Contact: Applications should include a letter describing research and teaching plans, complete curriculum vitae, writing sample, and the address and email of three referees. Applicants should request that theletters of referencebe forwarded directly at the time of application. All materials should be sent to Ms. Amy Larimer, Womens Studies Program, 133 Willard Building, Penn State University, University Park PA. 16802 byJanuary 14, 2011.  
  
Website:[www.womensstudies.psu.edu](http://www.womensstudies.psu.edu/)  
Primary Category: Women, Gender, and Sexuality  
  
Secondary Categories: Asian History / Studies  
  
Posting Date: 10/26/2010  
Closing Date01/14/2011  

  

Positions: Post Doctoral Fellowships (up to three) in South Asian Studies (Humanities and Social Sciences),Yale University  
\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*  
  
Yale University, South Asian Studies Council of the Macmillan Center, Yale University  
  
Post Doctoral Fellowships in South Asian Studies (Humanities and Social Sciences)  
  
  
Institution Type:College / University  
Location: Connecticut, United States  
Position: Post-Doctoral Fellow  
  
  
The South Asian Studies Council (SASC) at the MacMillan Center invites applications for post- doctoral positions at Yale University for AY  
2011-2012.The Councilexpects to make up to three (3) appointments with the possibility of a one-year renewal. Candidates must have research and  
teaching experience relevant to modern and contemporarySouth Asia, in the humanities or social sciences. Candidates with a PhD in South Asian  
History and otherHumanitiesincluding Cinema, Literatures, Music andHistory of Artare especially encouraged to apply.  
  
All applicants should have in-depth knowledge of at least one SA-related language and fluency in English; and must have completed the PhD by the  
time of appointment. The post-doctoral fellow will teach one course in each of two terms related to his/her interests, pursue his/her own  
research, and participate in the activities of theSouth Asian Studies Council. Applicants should submit a cover letter, one-page description of research plans;  
a draft of acourse syllabusand a title and brief summary of a second course; a CV; names and contact information of two references.  
Compensation includes an annual salary of $50,000 and health coverage.  
  
We will accept applications immediately with review beginningon January 10, 2011and continuing until the selections are final.  
  
Yale is an affirmative action/equal opportunity employer.  
  
All information from the applicant should be submitted electronically through Academic Jobs On-Line  
<https://academicjobsonline.org/ajo/jobs/533>.  
Uploaded PDF copies of signedreference letterswill be accepted but signed hard copies should be mailed to the address below.  
  
Ms. Kasturi Gupta,Program Manager  
South Asian Studies Council,  
The Whitney and Betty MacMillan Center for International andArea Studies,  
34 Hillhouse Avenue, P.O. Box 208206 New Haven, CT 06520-8206 USA.  
Email:[kastur...@yale.edu]()  
  
Contact: Ms. Kasturi Gupta, Program Manager,  
South Asian Studies Council,  
The Whitney and Betty MacMillan Center for International and Area Studies,  
34 Hillhouse Avenue, P.O. Box 208206 New Haven, CT 06520-8206 USA.  
Email:[kastur...@yale.edu]()  
Website:[http://www.yale.edu/macmillan/southasia/flash.htm](http://www.yale.edu/macmillan/southasia/flash.htm)  
Primary Category: Social Sciences  
  
Secondary Categories: Humanities  
  
Posting Date: 10/28/2010  
Closing Date01/26/2011

  

Position: Global History (including interests in South Asian or Islamic  
History), Assistant Professor, Wagner College, Staten Island, NY  
\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*  
  
Wagner College, History  
  
Assistant Professor, Global History, Tenure Track  
  
  
Institution Type:College / University  
Location: New York, United States  
Position: Assistant Professor  
  
  
Located inStaten Islandand overlooking the Manhattan skyline,Wagner Collegeis a private, non-sectarian 80%residential collegeof 1900 traditional aged undergraduate and 300 graduate students in selected professional programs. Wagner values campus diversity (domestic and international) and in keeping with this initiative, it welcomes applications from diverse candidates and candidates who support diversity and internationalization efforts. The College has been widely recognized for its innovative curriculum, The Wagner Plan for the Practical Liberal Arts, which integrates acore curriculum, required learning communities, experiential learning, diversity and civic education, as cited by TIME magazine, U.S.News & World Report, the educational media and severalhigher education associations. Further information about the College can be found on the Wagner Web site,[www.wagner.edu](http://www.wagner.edu/).  
  
TheWagner College Departmentof History seeks an Assistant Professor in Global History, with a focus on either African, Islamic or South Asian History, beginning fall 2011. The successful candidate will teach the introductory global history survey course as well as upper-level courses in fields of specialization.Interdisciplinary teachingis encouraged. Candidates are expected to participate in Wagner's nationally renowned, interdisciplinary First Year Program, including teaching writing and using experiential and civic learning projects that explore New York City. Ph.D. required byAugust 2011, teaching experience preferred.  
  
Application review begins immediately untilDecember 8th.  
  
Wagner College welcomes applications from qualified candidates from underrepresented groups.  
  
  
Contact: Sendletter of application, c.v., transcripts, sample syllabi, a writing sample andletters of recommendationto:  
  
Dr. Lori Weintrob  
  
Department of History  
Wagner College, Staten Island, NY 10301  
[718. 390.3309](tel:(718)%20390-3309)  
Fax[718.420.4158](tel:(718)%20420-4158)  
[LRWe...@wagner.edu]()  
  
Website: [www.wagner.edu](http://www.wagner.edu)  
Primary Category:  
Secondary Categories: Social Sciences  
  
Posting Date: 10/28/2010  
Closing Date12/01/2010

