+++
title = "000 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2016-08-10, 04:05:43 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/nqOiWTS1tpQ)]]



Aug 9, 2016



Dear Prof N. Paturi, Thanks for posting a lot of information on Rudra/Rudras.



Quote "The physical basis for *Rudra *is uncertain – he appears to be associated with the destructive forces of the storm and lightning, but occasionally identified with the sun (*Rudram* 1.7-9) (emphasis mine) Unquote.



Shatapatha BrahmaNa (II.6.2.17 from the page 67 of Thite book)in prayer requestRudra to go to Mujavat mountain in a way similar to Takman was asked in Atharvaveda(V.22.7) to go to the same region in the north of Afghanistan. Maruts are also described in the same manner.



Why to Afghanistan/ could anybody explain?



Here is my explanation

Now Afghanistan is famous from many centuries for very strong winds blowing for almost 4 months. Winds and tornados lift sand and slit in air and keep rotating. Due to friction sparks are genereted. This sparks millions of them make atmoshere to glow. This is called the phenomenon of Auto-electricity. This is how Rudra appears in Agni.

If anybody has different explanation please post here.



In BrahmaNa-texts, VaruNa is described as disease from water, Rudra from air. Remedies are also described.



The ancient history of Ilaa and Sudyumn became a mythological story at the puranical era. Perhaps the natural phenomenon from the remote region of Mujavat became deified after hundreds of years. Otherwise what was the purpose of choosing the distant mountain Mujavat for driving away Takman and Rudra/Rudras. by both Shatapatha BrahmaNa and Atharvaveda.Thanks. N.R.Joshi

  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: Nagaraj Paturi \<[nagara...@gmail.com]()\>  
To: [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Rudras -Do they hurt us or bless us?  
Date: Sun, 7 Aug 2016 23:28:54 +0530  
  

The book under question does not characterise Rudra only in plural nor just as micro-organisms.



The question 'do they hurt us or bless us?' is already answered by saying that god has both benevolent and malevolent aspects.



The following is what the book has got to say about Rudra (Part 1 pg 5):



***Rudra *– The god**

**

*Rudra *is a relatively minor deity in the *Ṛgveda*. He is the *devatâ *for the following mantras

(referenced by *Maṇḍala*, *Sûkta*, and *Ṛk*):



1.43.1-6 (6 *Ṛks*)

1.114.1-11 (Entire *Sûkta *of 11 *Ṛks*)

2.33.1-15 (Entire *Sûkta *of 15 *Ṛks*)

5.4211 (one *Ṛk*)

7.46( 1- 4) (Entire *Sûkta *of 4 *Ṛks*)

5.59.11 (one *Ṛk*)



Thus the *Ṛgvedasaṃhitâ *contains only 38 *Ṛks *(out of 10,552) addressed to *Rudra*. Some of

these *Ṛks *appear in the *Rudram *in a modified form, as will be pointed out later. *Rudra *is often associated with the *Maruts*, and is considered to be their father. Interestingly

there are both benevolent and malevolent aspects of *Rudra*. Here is a brief summary of the

characteristics associated with these aspects:



Benevolent:

Bountiful, bestows blessings

Unsurpassed in might

Ever youthful and lord of the world

Has healing powers (in fact he is referred to as शर्षक्, the physician)



Malevolent:

Fierce and destructive

Implored not to slay or injure worshippers and their clan and cattle



The physical basis for *Rudra *is uncertain – he appears to be associated with the destructive forces of the storm and lightning, but occasionally identified with the sun (*Rudram *1.7-9) (emphasis mine)



In the *anuvâkas *that contains (sic)the *Ṛks *(1, 10, and 11), both the benevolent and malevolent aspects of *Rudra *are mentioned and he is also identified with the sun in the first *anuvâka*. The remaining *anuvâkas *(*Yajus*) glorify the all-pervasive nature of *Rudra*. This indicates that these were two distinct compositions (perhaps by different people) which were later combined in such a way that the *Yajus *was inserted between the *Ṛks.*

  

On Sun, Aug 7, 2016 at 5:25 PM, Nagaraj Paturi \<[nagara...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> > The collection of mantras making 100 names of the devata Rudra is > called shatarudreeya.
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Snapshot of the account of the mantras is being shared here. >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > On Sun, Aug 7, 2016 at 2:13 PM, Hnbhat B.R. \<[hnbh...@gmail.com]()\> > wrote:  
> > > On 07-Aug-2016 2:32 am, "N.R.Joshi" \<[gira...@juno.com]()\> > > wrote:  
> > \>  
> > \> Aug 6, 2019  
> > \>   
> > \> Dear Dr V Sundaresan,  
> > \>   
> > \> You tell me what will be rudras in Agni? I have given reference > > under my posting. Please look at it. Thanks. N.R.Joshi  
> > \> > > > > It is from रुद्राध्याय of यजुर्वेद --- > > > > यो रुद्रो अग्नौ यो अप्सु य ओषधीषु । यो रुद्रो विश्वा भुवनाऽऽविवेश > > तस्मै रुद्राय नमो अस्तु ॥ २॥ > > > > You can read the original from this link find the answer yourself: > > > > <http://sanskritdocuments.org/doc_shiva/rudram.html?lang=sa> > > > > What he is prayed is in the next चमकाध्याय. > > > > With regards > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > --  
> > You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> > To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, > > send an email to [bvparishat+unsubscribe@googlegroups.com]().  
> > To post to this group, send email to > > [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> > For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> >   
>   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > --  
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Nagaraj Paturi >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA. >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Former Senior Professor of Cultural Studies >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > FLAME School of Communication and FLAME School ofLiberal Education, >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > (Pune, Maharashtra,INDIA) >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

  
  
  
--  

Nagaraj Paturi



Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA.



Former Senior Professor of Cultural Studies



FLAME School of Communication and FLAME School ofLiberal Education,



(Pune, Maharashtra,INDIA)









--  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**Fit Mom Daily**  
Forget Botox - Do This Once Daily  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/57aa5a81e759a5a811046st01vuc)<http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/57aa5a81e759a5a811046st01vuc>

