+++
title = "000 Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma"

+++
[[Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma	2010-09-08, 19:57:53 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/exxa6A3c90k)]]



**A FISH Review of "Indus Script Cipher".**  
  

---------- Forwarded message ----------  
From: **Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma** \<[d.ramak...@gmail.com]()\>  
Date: Tue, Sep 7, 2010 at 9:57 PM  
Subject: A FISH Review of "Indus Script Cipher".  
To: "S. Kalyanaraman" \<[kaly...@gmail.com]()\>  
  
  
**"Heritage awareness makes one a responsible and enlightened citizen."**  
**With this vision,** **Foundation for Indian Scientific Heritage,Surathkal,Karnataka,  
Bharatam,** **would take it a special privilege to present the following to the lovers  
of Indian Scientific Heritage who are global citizens for that very reason.**  
  
"It is not down in any map; true places never are." This profound quotation (not quote, as it is a verb)  
from ***Moby Dick*** only betrays the brain map. Had it not been so, how could Dr.S.Kalyanaraman succeed  
in his endeavor of decoding? It is all brain mapped by the Divine Decoder, Vaak/Vaani/Sri Saraswati!  
\*\*\*\*\*\*\*  
"This book is a dedication to children of present and future generations". (p.4)  
Yes, शृण्वन्तु सर्वे अमृतस्य पुत्रा: gathers new meanings with this ennobling dedication by the author.  
\*\*\*\*\*\*\*  
Sri Saraswati Painting by Sri Raja Ravi Varma (1848-1906) and the Svastika seals  
on the cover page have added greater dimensions to the author's dedication and dedicated efforts.  
\*\*\*\*\*\*\*  
"Written language has rules, which can be revealed through mathematical analysis, that make it  
understandable and grant it almost infinite communicative power."(pp124-125)  
Indeed, this 'mathematical modeling of natural language' does contain the secret which may  
facilitate decoding of Veda Vidya, "anantaah vai Vedaah", and its corollary "anantaarthaah vai Vedaah".  
\*\*\*\*\*\*\*  
The content of the pages 263-278, viz., *Mleccha and Bharatiya languages* deserve to be the contents of  
the pages of age appropriate text books for school/college students.  
So are the pages 221-235.  
\*\*\*\*\*\*\*  
**The Golden Pages are** pp. 125-128; *Resolution of language problem*  
"A resolution to these problems comes from a surprising source: Manu." **This is the Golden Sentence.**  
This points out how such surprising findings can add another edge to the gem of *Manu Smriti.*  
"मुनीनां पुनराद्यानां वाचं अर्थो अनुधावति ", How true that the meaning follows the word of the Sages and Ancient Ones!  
  
Justice Sri Rama Jois succeeded in reasserting *Manu Smriti* as a text relevant to modern judiciary in  
many areas and aspects. His monumental work heralded serious Manu-study in the modern context which  
is a rewarding effort in training and refining the judicial conscience. Dr.S.Kalyanaraman has succeeded in  
enlightening the national conscience.  
Hence he is rightly the Heritage Gem of Bharatam, the Bharata-Samskruti-Ratnam.  
**Jayatu Bharatam, Jayatu Samskrutam.  
Vande Mataram, Go-Mataram.**  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
Respected Sri Kalyanaraman, if permitted this would be posted to FISH and BVP.  
Or you may do so.  
Regards.  
  
  
  
Sri S  
  
  
  
--  
Aangirasa/Dr.S.Ramakrishna Sharma. M.A.,Ph.D.(Eng.Lit.),Ph.D.(Sanskrit.).  

  
  
  
--  
Aangirasa/Dr.S.Ramakrishna Sharma. M.A.,Ph.D.(Eng.Lit.),Ph.D.(Sanskrit.).  

