+++
title = "003 Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma"

+++
[[Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma	2011-01-09, 09:01:49 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/KFSTsyWycXM)]]



\>Are we to think that Lord Krishna wanted to impart modern science  
to Arjuna on the battle field when He said  
  
jn"Anam te'ham savijn"anam  
idam vaks"yAmy as'es"ataH  
(bhagavad-gItA 7.2) ?  
  

Certainly NOT.

  
  
\>Nothing but chaos, unrestricted and unadulterated, has been unleashed  
the day we began to use mistranslations - of some of the commonly used English words into Sanskrit.  
  

What is required is, like STOP PRESS, we have to STOP MIND from  
the traffic/export and import of English words/terms from the domain of  
modern science to Vaidika/Samskrutam contexts and vise versa  
without defining the purpose, requirement and context.  
  
What I meant was that all inclusive knowledge(sarva vidya) ought to necessarily  
encompass every branch of disciplines.  
  
One of the major issues is that of PARIBHASHA.  
And PRAKRIYA.is another. VINIYOGA and PRAYOGA  
follow.  
  
This is not easy. Leave alone translations and back translations.  
We have to take up, for example, the Six Darshanas, one by one  
to gather/compile experimentable areas. Let this be done in Samskrutam.  
  
As all the Six Darshanas are traditionally Vaidika Darshanas,  
either the primary or the secondary sources provide the textual  
references from the Vedas.  
  
What are the relevant tools, linguistic exercises apart, required to  
pursue the pariikshanam in the specific area delimited?  
  
Besides in vitro and in vivo is there a third way/means?  
Like the yogipratyaksham.  



