+++
title = "021 Dr.BVK Sastry"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry	2011-01-11, 08:59:21 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/KFSTsyWycXM)]]



Namaste  
  
'Vedanta -vijnana-Sunishcitaarthah' - is a veda mantra chanted  
repeatedly in words, followed less in spirit !  
Along with 'Vijnana', another word of confusion is 'vishva-vidyaa-  
nilaya' used for University !  
  
In the context of Confusion', my question is : Do we want to transmit  
this confusion as a 'heritage trait' or 'transmit the best of current  
period integral understanding to the next generations' ? The approach  
to arrive at the meaning of the vedic words, when in doubt or in the  
normal course are discussed in a focused way in works of 'Veda  
lakshana' .Many pathashaalas may not be equipped to follow this system  
of teaching even in India; Further down, the loss of teaching of  
Vedanga- especially the Shikshaa or articulation-purity ( ucchaarana  
shuddhi /Varna-svara shuddhi) and Pratishakhya - for at least four /  
five branches of veda is another important factor to be noticed. When  
these things are distorted , the 'Gopaaya maam Shevadhishte aham asmi'  
promise of veda can not be unilaterally invoked andconclude -'of what  
use is Veda?"  
  
1. The prolonged discussion brings to the forefront the foundation  
questions, which only a competent body of Educators (Acahryas) in a  
properly established educational Institution (-like the proposed  
University of Samskrutham) can work and establish, at least  
contemporary information consolidation. We are not in the period of  
Singular monlilithic 'Sarvajna-Sarvavit' authorities of knowledge in  
all disciplines - of long lineage like Vyasa Bhagavan to Sayana /  
Madhvacharya. So team work and forum are essential: The questions are  
the like of :  
  
a) What makes a 'Shabda' a 'Vaidika (- veda bhavah)- / - Vedic ( -  
veda sambandhi , vedasya idam , related to veda / Veda ( samskrutha  
shabda with -ic as an affix from English?!)- Patanjali's statement :  
Vedaat no vaidikaah , lokaat no laukikaah. So what is Veda and Loka ?  
If western view is followed, this distinction is one founded on  
history and leads to the usage: during vedic period and in vedic  
society !  
If Shaastra paddahti is followed, then 'Vedic period' has no meaning  
or only has a meaning in the back drop of Mahapralaya - time scale of  
billions of years; and explanation of meaning stability leads to a  
challenge; and Jaiminiya schools may get upset in making the 'viniyoga  
of mantras' in rituals!.  
  
  
b) Granting that some how a mechanism is developed to separate the  
cateogry /genus /jati' of the laukika-vaidika shabdas, how are the  
association of meaning to be made ?- Atha gaurityatra kah shabdah ?  
If the word 'Go' occurs in veda and loka, can the same meaning be  
extended ? (- Tadashihsyam samjnaa pramanatvaat!)  
  
Possibilities of errors ?  
  
c) Assuming that the branched dictionary tradition like Nirukta and  
Kosha and their long etymological tradition comes up, what preventive  
steps are taken in guarding the purity of traditions and cross  
discipline usage of words - including the bhashyas, which are taken  
as unquestionable authority ? (Personal matter of trust needs to be  
respectfully kept outside the debate. I have great respect for all  
acharya traditions; and I know this could be very sensitive leading to  
emotionally charged responses)  
  
d) When post 1700 the entire oriental schools started writing the  
comparative linguistics / dictionaries and Samskrutham tradition was  
burdend with Maxmuller- Monier Williams-Macdonell Teamed writings,  
what is the response of the traditional schools - ? Ah they dont  
know ! Only we know what the tration is ! The result is 200 years and  
the voice of tradition is more broken and brittle! The teams of native  
scholars take pride in endorsing the Roth's resources from Germany to  
be used for Vedic studies ; and Government of India considers it s a  
great privelge to fund it and support it. So where is the 'army of  
veda-word-guards' = vaidika-shada -rakshaka', which in tenth century  
were driven away by nata-vita-gayaka teams ?  
  
d) In post independence /post Desktop publishing / web resource era,  
what is still being circulated is the ' Monier Willimas Dictionary'  
in its several avatars! And is being extensively used for research (-  
is it lame-blind collboration or blind leading blind to light ?  
logic). Dr.Korada, Ganesh , Kannan, Jagannatha and many others - are  
pointing to the right ends. But where do i see any response from any  
of the 'Academia of Orient' who are engaged in the PIE ? Or the  
'final deployment of veda for welfare in rituals' ( yajnena yajnam  
ayajanta devaah) ?  
  
e) When 'Veda' decoding is in such state, what to speak of 'Vedanga'  
and within that the 'Jyotisha' deabte ? Or the Upa-veda - issues in  
'Ayurveda' Or the 'Yoga-Tantra as Veda-Darshana Sadhana' ?  
  
f) Only when this much of 'In-House work' is done, does the issue of  
'Translation /Translation methodology comes in to the larger debate.  
Whether it is from Samskrutham to any of the social languages of the  
world /English or other way round, the translation methodology has  
always been a challenge.  
  
I request that the individual threads here may help in converging to  
an action plan for the intended goal.  
  
Regards  
BVK Sastry  

î—“

