+++
title = "025 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2011-01-11, 15:47:56 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/KFSTsyWycXM)]]



Fine expose by aareni ji.

  

Though RN Iyengar avoids getting into the scientific method in detail, I have to add this caveat.

  

See the seminal article, 'Science as falsification' by Karl Popper.

<http://www.stephenjaygould.org/ctrl/popper_falsification.html>  
  

Some excerpts:

  

> 
> > "I knew, of course, the most widely accepted answer to my problem: > that science is distinguished from pseudoscience—or from > "metaphysics"—by its*empirical method*, which is > essentially*inductive*, proceeding from observation or experiment. > But this did not satisfy me. On the contrary, I often formulated my > problem as one of distinguishing between a genuinely empirical method > and a non-empirical or even pseudo-empirical method — that is to say, > a method which, although it appeals to observation and experiment, > nevertheless does not come up to scientific standards. The latter > method may be exemplified by astrology, with its stupendous mass of > empirical evidence based on observation — on horoscopes and on > biographies. >
> 
> > 
> > "...It was the summer of 1919 that I began to feel more and more > dissatisfied with these three theories—the Marxist theory of history, > psycho-analysis, and individual psychology; and I began to feel > dubious about their claims to scientific status. My problem perhaps > first took the simple form, "What is wrong with Marxism, > psycho-analysis, and individual psychology? Why are they so different > from physical theories, from Newton's theory, and especially from the > theory of relativity? >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > "...One can sum up all this by saying that the criterion of*the > scientific status of a theory is its**falsifiability*,*or > refutability*,*or testability*." >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > In summary, what we have to agree on is the bharatiya theory of > knowledge and bharatiya method of research, instead of relying upon > marxist materialism leading to thesis-antithesis-synthesis as a > framework for exploring traditional knowledge systems. > Revisitingतंत्रयुक्ति, may perhaps throw light using the heat. See > for e.g.: W.K.Lele, 1981,*The doctrine of the tantrayukti-s: > Methodology of theoretico-scientific treatises in Sanskrit*, > Chaukhamba Surabharati Pratishthan, Varanasi. Of course, we have to > start with theory of language in Bharatiya tradition, e.g.भाषा > परिच्छेद >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > namaskaram. kalyanaraman >
> 

  

2011/1/11 rniyengar \<[narayana...@gmail.com]()\>  





