+++
title = "000 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2012-02-12, 05:39:55 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/QaEjaqUhC6Q)]]



The three-day seminar on Vedas organised by the

Madhunan Vaidic Samskriti evam Paryavaran Samsthan

jointly with

Maharshi Sandeepani Vedavidya Peeth, Ujjain

went off very successfully and fruitfully. Vedavids and Vedapatheesfrom all over the countries from each Veda and brach of Veda were assembled. It is highly laudable that the Samsthaan is directing specific efforts towards 1. preventing any branch of Veda from becoming extinct; and 2. reviving two branches that have already become extinct; by research. The guiding spirit behind these efforts is H.H. Sri Kaushalendra Ramanuja phalaahaariji Maharaj; under the able guidance of Sri M.A.Lakshmitathachar of Karnataka. Every Shakha of each Veda was presented with prominence. Apart from the above Swaadhyasatra, jnanasatra, papers from non-vaidic scholars from different universities were also presented alongside. All the scholars were duly honoured without exception.



The seminar was well attended by Scholars from all over the country and also Nepal; and a few from even abroad. The prominent feature of the first day was the attendance of Prof. Bhim Singh, the President of the Panthers Party and Senior Advocate of the SC; who announced that he would provide 50 bighas of land in Jammu & Kashmir for establishing a Veda Vidyashala and offered to host the next Vaidic conference, if held in J&K. The Registrar of the Maharshi Sandeepani Vedavidya Peeth, who was present through out the function, raising the quantum of funds sanctioned from 4 crores to 24 crores, said that his usual experience was that a name-sake organisation will be set up, but actually very little will be accomplished; but here in Alwar, his experience was otherwise. He was stunned by the phenomenal progress that the Madhusudan Samsthan had achieved within a span of three years.



It is said of Alwar, that the king, named Ulwar, changed it Alwar, so that his name in the School attendance, which was coming last, would come first. It may be a fact. But I see it differently. अलवर् is the correct name. लकारःकालसन्केतः॥

लंअत्येतिइति अलः ॥अलःअसौवरः चअलवरः॥ भगवन्नाम ॥



All the arrangements were excellent. The stay, the food and the transport - everything had been taken proper care of. Everybody was taken care of, as Vasistha says in Valmiki Ramayan, as if that person was the chief guest. It was not mere hospitality; but the warmth of affection that Dr.Neeraj Sharma, Mrs. Smitha Sharma and their companions showered on the quests endlessly was divine. The entire proceedings were in Sanskrit or Sanskritic Hindi.

धन्योस्मि

s.r.krishna murthy.









