+++
title = "001 Arun"

+++
[[Arun	2010-10-04, 18:42:31 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/2u--S5iutlQ)]]



For everything we can not demand archeological evidence. Birth of Rama  
was just like birth of any other child. It was not an explosion of  
atom bomb which will leave its traces for some hundred years. That too  
will not last 7000 years. Most of massive records have been made  
mainly to fuzz the issue as no body can go through voluminous records.  
Basic points are very simple without any reference to Hindu or Islam-  
(1) From Babur to Wakf borad-nobody has ever wanted any mosque for  
prayer. Babur could have done his Namaz at Faraghana if that was his  
aim. It is not prescribed in Koran that 50 cities should be burnt, 1  
lakh muslims and 3 lakh hindus should be kiled and all temples on way  
to Ayodhya should be demolished for offering Namaz.  
(2) Wakf Board also can offer Namaz where muslim populatio lives in  
Ayodhya or elsewhere-it need not interfere in alll temples which is  
also prohibited in Koran.  
(3) There is no need to read Koran. It cannot prescribe crime for  
religious purposes as societies are running since 1400 years on basis  
of Koran.  
(4) Rama was born in Ayodhya, but exact palace will not remain. We can  
say about present building only which should be before 1200 AD. But  
Rama was born in 5 km radius of that point. It is not a faith or  
religion only. Why should we mistrust knowledge of crores through the  
ages ?  
(5) There is no mosque for worship of Mohammed also, why there should  
be any for Babur ? In matter of character, who should be ideal- Rama  
who left his kingdom, or Babur whose whole life was for looting or  
murder?  
(6) If right of invadors and looters is admitted, then no case of  
theft or murder will stand. There will be no family property or a  
country. That is against Koran also-Arun  
  
On 3 अक्तू, 15:22, "S. Kalyanaraman" \<[kalya...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  
\> \*“Hindus' belief about Lord Rama's birthplace protected under Article 25”\*  
\>  
\> \*J. Venkatesan\*  



