+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-09-16, 02:42:56 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/2A9sk1_OLIk)]]



Call for papers: "Building Bridges: Negotiating Cultural Memories inCanadaandIndia", Jadavpur University, Kolkata,February 16, 2011  
  
  
CFP: Building Bridges: Negotiating Cultural Memories in Canada and India  
  
Location: India  
Conference Date:2011-02-16  
Date Submitted: 2010-09-06  
Announcement ID: 178667  
  
Cultural memoryas a form of knowledge system is seen as a pre-text for modern expression/s, negotiating with interdisciplinary approaches from the point of view ofevolutionary psychology, politics, literature and philosophy and environmental studies. The objective of the conference is to focus on the construction, evolution, evaluation and representation of issues pertaining to various cultural memories and how these become important tools in negotiating modernity with its various ramifications in Canada and India.  
  
The conference will further focus on issues such as Globalisation, Ecocriticism,Ecofeminismin relation to the changing face of cultural expressions of diverse groups like immigrants, the First Peoples, sexual minorities in Canada and India. The Conference would invite a multidisciplinary approach to evaluate the changing face of disseminating knowledge which involves a process of negotiation and precisely this process of negotiation is what we have already defined as modernity.  
  
Our objective is to capture the dynamics of how individual works of authors, texts, genres, cultural productions by various groups address this negotiation. We shall also look at literatures of various disciplines other than humanities such as science, technology, medical and technical terminologies, etc. We know that language as a broad category react and participate in this process. Addressing the problematics of language transmission (which has its own politics), would add further credibility to the contemporanaeity of such a conference. This would also help us contextualise pertinent issues that need to be taken cognizance of, both in Canada and in India. The thrust areas of the conference would also address the various gaps in scholarship, especially, between mainstream pedagogic practices andgrassroots activism. The conference would also emphasize upon emerging areas/trends of critical investigation, such as literature and cultural productions of the First Peoples of Canada and India, contribution of digital archives, and the socio-political and cultural concerns of fast-emerging groups in Canada and India which need to be dealt with outside the majority/minority discourse.  
  
Papers are invited in all areas relating to the general theme of the conference. We have identified certain areas and some of them are listed below:  
  
o Citizenship, Identity and Nation  
o Community and the Individual  
o Justice  
o The poetics of fashion  
o Culinary activities  
o Societies, integration/disintegration, inclusion/exclusion  
o Politics of Marginalization  
o Globalisation  
o Ecofeminism  
o Language  
o Translation  
o Testimonials  
o Travel Narratives  
o Paintings  
o Performance Texts  
o The Verbal and the Visual  
o The New Media (Blog/Online journals/ Online networks)  
o Alternative sexualities  
o Dislocation  
o Metropolis, cities, towns and ruralis  
o Advertisements  
oScience and technology  
  
The title and a brief abstract (200-300 words) of the proposed paper may be sent as an email attachment by1st October, 2010to[canadac...@gmail.com]()  
  
Conference Coordinators:  
  
Sm. Debashree Dattaray (Lecturer)[debashre...@gmail.com]()  
Sm. Swagata Bhattacharya (Research Fellow)[sbha...@yahoo.co.in]()  
Sri Dheeman Bhattacharyya (Research Fellow)[dheemanbha...@gmail.com]()  
Department ofComparative Literature, Jadavpur University, Kolkata, India  
  
  
Centre forCanadian Studies  
Departmentof Comparative Literature  
Jadavpur University  
Kolkata - 700 032, West Bengal, India  
Email:[canadac...@gmail.com]()

