+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-11-30, 09:28:58 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/DEW5k_SvJf0)]]



*Economic Principles of the Vedic Tradition (2010)*by Nicholas Kazanas Publisher: Aditya Prakashan, Delhi





> The book deals with economic principles as found in the more ancient > sources of the Vedic period in so far as this is possible. Unlike a > particular application of a law which may well be affected by > circumstances and thusappear to be different from place to place and > time to time, a principle has an unchanging, universal quality. > Despite few economic terms used throughout the text like Land Value > Taxation (which means simply taxing the value of land alone) there is > nothing complex or complicated in this study and reading it does not > require any training in Economics. By showing the relation of the > Indic principles to certain modern concepts and particularly to Land > Value Taxation the book goes a long way in bringing into light many > valuable economic concepts and practices supported by an institutional > framework. >
> 
> > Thus we meet the same concern about the distribution of wealth that > occupies the mind of modern economists. How much does a man or a > family need to earn and how much should be given to the royal treasury > (i.e. the State) and how should these be determined? Or to put it in > other terms, how should taxation be levied? Then, how should the State > dispose of its revenue? Also, how should lending operate and what > would be fair rates of interest? The lawgivers in ancient India were > fully aware of all these issues. One aspect of modern economies that > is not treated by the ancients is unemployment because this problem > appeared as such, on a large scale, only with the increase of > population, the land enclosures (= privatization) and the industrial > revolution in Europe at the end of the 18th century. But the texts > take it for granted that people should feel secure in their different > employments. A most surprising feature is the principles of free > access to land for all and the Land Value Tax which should be the > source of Government revenue (and expenditure). It is surprising > because Land Value Taxation is supposed to be a fairly modern concept.

  

kalyan



