+++
title = "066 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2017-12-13, 09:34:26 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/0n41vcuW9E0)]]



Namaste



On \< I was **merely suggesting Manu smriti as a "worst-case" scenario**. I was **not posting any contrapoint to hArita**. **I have no axe to grind whether women performed Nityakarma or not**.I am merely exploring possibilities here. \> and \< Good! Now the fact is that there ARE 2 women. shAstra must cater to such cases.> and \< Is this because of sexism? Or lack of equal opportunity ? \>



1. Let us step back for a moment and ask the question. The logic is ‘ IF men becomes Rushi’s, THEN they have a right to expect ‘ Rushi-ka’s to be their Life –partners ! Are men so keen to become Rushi’s for which upanayana samskara is the entry door ? : 



 Why was a Dharmashaastra kara making special detailing on the issue of ‘ Women- Upanayana – Brahma vadini’s different from household- Women Bhikshaa only in ‘svagruha’ and not outside ? (This would make the statement ‘ bhavati bhikshaam ( me) dehi to be reopened with a feminine gender perspective ?!) unless the issue was relevant for the ‘society observed by Dharma Shaastra Kaara was concerned with this ?



 **So what is the ‘ Dharma-Vyaadhi / baadhaa – peedaa ’ – (the Dharma linked stress and suffering) and ‘ Dharma –Dukha’ in this debated issue ?** **What solutions are sought from ‘Dharma –Shaastra’ historicity as ‘ (a –gada) – (nigada) -aushadha or a palliative opium ?**



 Unless there is an ‘ identified disease’, and there is a
willing patient seeking a remedy -relief from ‘ vyaadhi’, there is no need for a medical professional, pharma industry, medical school
and medicine supply distribution chain in a Health economy !
Unless there is an ‘ identified DHARMA -disease’, and there is a
willing patient seeking a remedy -relief from ‘ Dharma vyaadhi’,
there is no need for a Dharma- professional, Religion- industry, Veda-Patha shaala school and parihara - supply distribution chain in
a Mandir centric economy !





2. The issue of SmrutiKara’s opinion, right from Manu to several others, on ‘ Girl Child/Women/ upanayanam’ linked to daunting display of yajnopaveetam ( over the dress – hanging like a necklace or cross over the shoulder of a lady), chanting of ‘speciifc vedamnatras for gruhyaagni karya and chanting in marriage - and well a connected set of issues are debated endlessly in the context of ‘ Equality rights’. Good.



 **What is needed to take the discussion with relevance further is the input on** : How to make these concerned scholars to come out of their ‘ history –text blinkers and scripted evidence of social practices, to see ‘How they did in the past’ and ‘ How we are doing in the last two centuries?



 The audience (Genre-1) ask the question: What should we be doing in this period, here, now ?

 The scholars (Genre -2) question is : What is the road map to prepare a \< vAgambhrini, Lopamudra, Gargi sItA , pAnchAli / Pancha kanyA> of the coming decades who would desire a \< Rushi, Agastya, Yajnavalkya, Sri Rama – Dharmaraja> as life partners ?



3. These are issues that need to work on plans to ‘Educate the Families for compliance with Dharma Shaastra’ which needs to be built on the ‘ Updated Dharma Shaastra for desha –kaala –samaaja –vyavahara’ contexts. What is needed is capturing the essence of ‘Dharmashaastra as a Smruti for providing guidance to yoga-Samskaras’ for ‘ Yogyataa –adhikaara Siddhi, Kartavyataa, Praayaschitta, Upaasanaa, Saadhanaa, Aaraadhanaa’. And Re-articulating what is told in ‘Samskrutham’ in the languages of the current society. ( One need not change the veda mantra; but one needs to add explanation to the ‘Samskaara’ and Education to the audience and the ‘ Samskaara –administrator= Purohita. )



4. This line of exploration goes to seek two genre of people in the ‘concerned society’:



 ***Genre -1*** : Those who have the competence ( adhikaara – yogyataa –saamarthya) to be the spokes person on Dharma-Shaastra? A knowledge of cover to cover letter detail on ‘History of Dharma Shaastra’ or ‘ Texts like Manus smirit’ are essential, but not sufficient!



 ***Genre-2***: If such guidance be available, as tweaked from the old texts or create a new medley from old texts, the people who are willing to abide by it, and find a benefit . In absence of these two genre of people in the society as beneficiaries to sustain the practice, rest of the debate is a ‘ post mortem of a past game looking at the replay, using fast forward , rewind, slow motion, frame capturing techniques of video tools’. No doubt it adds to scholarship and creates ‘Sat-Sang/ Song and good entertainment with sad-vichara’ but also leads to endless ‘ Vishaada - Vikopa’ looking at the vikruti’s.



5. **The Shaastra-kaaras job and ‘Shaastra – Samskaara -Vichaara Charchaa’ is not end up in making the ‘diagnostics and report’ leaving the job half done.** A surgeon cannot rip open the heart to identify the block in the blood flow to identify the defective valve; and then say it is for someone else to clean it and replace the valve and close it. A surgeon needs to work with the whole team and finish the job to restore the ‘ health of the patient. Otherwise, the ‘surgeon should limit the enterprise to class room and not go on to the ‘ operations table’. 



6\. **Coming back to the ‘ Women- Upanayana- Yajnopavita’, the answers are all available through the right understanding of the** ‘ **Upanayana Samkalpa’ for both male and female**, **and extendable to all Varnas and A-varnas !** This has been available in Smruti –texts and repeated at the beginning of ‘ Upanayana Samskaara’.



 Whether the father is undertaking or Guru is undertaking the responsibility for ‘ upanayana’, the guide lines provided for ‘ brahmacharya/ Brahmachaarinee vratas’. The choice of continuing the ‘upanayanottara veda –vratas’ pursuit by ‘ women-upaneetaa’ as
‘snaataka vratas / brahmavaadinee options’ depends on several social issues, age of the girl, the institutional guidelines etc;. When the later smritikaara says ‘women –upaneetaa’ is restricted to seek bhikshaa in ‘sva-gruhe’’, one can see the change in social conditions.
In the current period, even this condition may not be tenable !



 A connected issue **: Should humans be wearing yajnopaveeta in approaching Gods ?** - Explore the observations in PV Kane: Dharma Shaastra / Samskaras – Vol-2 – Page -388:
<https://archive.org/stream/historyofdharmas029210mbp#page/n345/mode/2up> . Is there likely to be a text and tradition suggesting special rules for ‘yajnopavita’ for ‘ Humans’ in general and ‘ Brahmanas when performing the pooja-patha –yajna –samskaras’ ? Does one see a conflict in the shruti and dharmashaastra –abhyasa ? Or is it an ‘ opinion by translation’?



**Many issues and dimensions to contemplate in which ‘yoga/ yaugika artha/ paribhashaa’ of Samskruth language plays a critical rule; a dimension which ‘ historical linguistics and ‘Sanskrit studies’ cannot resolve ! This needs ‘Yoga- Samskrutham: Yoga way of studying Samskrutham’. **



Regards

BVK Sastry



**From:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() \[mailto:[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\] **On Behalf Of** venkat veeraraghavan  
**Sent:** Tuesday, 12 December, 2017 9:55 PM  
**To:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Re: Women and सन्ध्यावन्दनम् (from सन्ध्यावन्दनम् )



Dear Shri Vishvas ji:



I was merely suggesting Manu smriti as a "worst-case" scenario. I was not posting any contrapoint to hArita.

I have no axe to grind whether women performed Nityakarma or not.

I am merely exploring possibilities here.



The citations you have given only show that both ladies learnt vedAngas (do correct me if wrong) and not much information is given on whether they learnt the vedAh which would be implicit if they were performing nityakarmas.

However the puranas do attest to the fact that women had access to learning from the way sItA and pAnchAli debate with their husbands on the basis on shastra. This would not be possible without deep learning.



On Tue, Dec 12, 2017 at 9:03 PM, विश्वासो वासुकिजः (Vishvas Vasuki) \<[vishvas...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:

On Tue, Dec 12, 2017 at 1:18 AM, venkat veeraraghavan \<[vvenk...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:

  
Regarding women not being given right to nityakarmas the following is my humble opinion:

Feminism and forced equality is a modern western construct that trashes any paradigm that does not agree with its tenets to the letter. Trying to analyse the motives of the Rshis with such a blinkered approach would be to ignore the bigger picture.



Agree - however, I don't see such argument being made in recent replies (haven't dug up old responses).





> 
> > 
> > 
> > Manu clearly states that women remain under the protection of their > fathers, husbands and sons at different stages of life. Women were > considered as shakti and automatically received 50% of the punyakarma > of their protectors(father-husband-son). When this be the case where > is the question of double standards? >
> 
> > 
> > 



That does not contradict claims to upanayana etc.. Yet, if manu is your ultimate authority and not hArita - it may be that way. If you honor hArita and manu equally - there is a clear provision for some women to undergo upanayana, as cited earlier.





> 
> > 
> > 
> > Added to this Vedic Rshikas like vAgambhrini, Lopamudra, Gargi et al > are testimony to the fact that women had the independence and right to > knowledge. How did a Gargi or a Lopamudra or a Devahuti find mention > if not for their thirst and acquisition of knowledge?
> > 
> > 
> > Even today in a cerebral game like chess the of the top 100 > grandmasters 98 are men and only 2 are women. Is this because of > sexism? Or lack of equal opportunity? >
> 
> > 
> > Not so. >
> 
> > 
> > 



Good! Now the fact is that there ARE 2 women. shAstra must cater to such cases.



The following citations may be of interest:  
  
  

1. Hotii Vidyalankara : Born to 'kulin' brahmin family she was a widow from childhood . She became an authority on vyAkaraNa, poetry , smRti , Navya-nyAya and established her own 'chatuspathi' ( centers of higher learning ) at Varanasi ! Panditas bestowed her with the title of Vidyalankara . She died at an advanced age in the year 1810 . \[[IMG](http://i.imgur.com/I6MuDEx.jpg)\]

2. Hotu Vidyalankar/ nee Rupamanjari: She was not a brahmin , but her father , Narayan Das noticed her exceptional intellgence and sent her at the 'chatushpaathi' of a brahmin pandit . There Rupamanjari mastered Ayurveda , vyAkaraNa and other branches of studies . Her fame spread far and wide and students used to come from far off places to learn or get opinions on Ayurveda , charaka-samhita andvyAkaraNa. Ayurvedic doctors of the age used to consult her on matters of medicine ! Rupamanjari never married andkept her head shaven with a 'shikha' ( Chuda / tuft of hair ) and dressed as a man . She died 100 years of age at 1875 .\[[IMG](http://i.imgur.com/I6MuDEx.jpg)\]







