+++
title = "000 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2012-03-02, 07:56:12 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/yLV1v24mNtU)]]



Dear Krishna Kumar and Hemanth Jois,



Your objections to what Waves-International is doing is neither moral nor legal. They are pursuing their interests in their own way; just as you are free to pursue yours, which nobody can object, unless such a pursuit infringes another's right. Further your postings do not explain what you have done so far on the subject; whether your viewshave been accepted and validated by any scholar on the subjector any seer. Mere opinions cannot be imposed on others.



Dissemination of Knowledge is important; and not the methodology per se. Our ancients did not use the computers. But is not computer being used even by our friend Hemanth Kumar? There are no forests left in India. Doesthat mean that we should stop holding ghosties? Krishnakumar, you negate your own objections. you say, today everybody knows about a mobile phone; but not of Vedas. That is why some people are interested logically to hold a seminar on vedas; but on mobile phones.



I want the eminence of you two scholars to come out quite positively and not negatively.

yours fraternally,

s.r.krishna murthy.  
  

On Sun, Feb 26, 2012 at 2:47 PM, Hemanth Kumar G \<[heman...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> I do agree with Mr. Krishnakumar. These conferences are just a show  
> off and biased by so many aspects, without any useful output. See > the  
> different 'Chintana-Mantana' ways lke LokaBhiraama, Charcha, GosTi,  
> Parishat, Vidwat SaBha, Dharma SaBha, Dharmika GosTi, Vakyartha > GosTi,  
> Vichaara Mantana GosTi and many other with perfect definition of  
> intentions, ways to conduct. Finally the 'KumBha MeLa' was > considered  
> ultimate conference which declares the subject and the speaker as  
> 'Jnani' of that time. These were followed in Sanatana Bharata.  
>   
> Rushis were also gathering in some place (Aranya), analyze different  
> problems of society and the solutions for the same. Whatever the  
> solution found, was to be approved by Saptarshi Parishat and  
> implemented in the society by Prajapathi.  
>   
> But modernized conferences in Science, Technology, Medicine, or  
> language are just a waste of time and money. But a good platform to  
> build one's profile to depict the so & so publications in so & so  
> conference !!  
>   
> What's the contribution in addressing the social problems?  
>   
> Where it will be implemented?  
>   
> In India what is their contribution in uplifting the living > standards  
> of all citizens based on the principles of "Dharma"?  
>   
> Except protecting the Oral Tradition of Veda in 11th 5 Year plan, > any  
> other contribution of these conferences in the area of Vedas has > been  
> included by the Planning Commission of India?  
>   
> Any aspect of Vedas is reaching the common people or just in the > hands  
> of few people  
> who just keep on discussing in so called knowledge or talented > forum?  
>   
> Everybody in India knows about 'Mobile Phone' but so many don't know  
> there is something called as Veda !  
> > 
> > 
> >   
> On 2/26/12, krishnakumar Mb \<[krishna...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  
> \> DR BALRAM AND ALL HERE  
> \>  
> \> WHAT DO UR BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEAN BY " VEDIC CULTURE?"  
> \>  
> \> kINDLY TELL THEM THAT  
> \>  
> \> VEDAS ARE OBEJECTIVE CULMINATIONS WITH DEFINED OBEJECTIVITY,  
> \> OPERATIONS, PROCESS AND FUNCTIONS.  
> \>  
> \> THERE IS NOTHING CALLED A VEDIC CULTURE  
> \>  
> \> IT WILL BE SOMETHING LIKE MIT CULTURE, NASA CULTURE, ISRO > CULTURE,  
> \> BARC CULTURE, IAEC CULTURE, IIM CULTURE, OBAMA CULTURE OR NIXON  
> \> CULTURE, BUSH CULTURE, INDIRA CULTURE........  
> \>  
> \> SO MUCH OF NONSENSE IS PERPETUATED AND PROJECTED IN THE NAME OF > INDIC  
> \> STUDIES , YOGA AND VEDIC LITERATURE.  
> \>  
> \> THIS HAS TO COME TO AN END. WITH ALL THE GRATITUDE TO THOSE WHO  
> \> ATLEAST READ AND TAUGHT SOME ASPECTS IN THE NAME OF THESE > STUDIES.  
> \>  
> \>  
> \> AND WE BEGIN HERE WITH A NEW NOTE.  
> \>  
> \> SUCH A CONFERENCE SHOULD NOT TAKE PLACE. TAKE CONSENT OF THE  
> \> PERPETUATORS OF VEDAS BEFORE ANYTHING.  
> \>  
> \> THESE ARE NOT FOR SALE LIKE ACADEMIC PUBLICATIONS.  
> \>  
> \> Dr. Balram, hope you understand the contention of what is written  
> \> here, than its figurative meaning. and take note of this and tell > you  
> \> board of directors.  
> \>  
> \> a reply is awaited to all in this forum  
> \>  
> \> krishna  
> \>  
> \> On 2/24/12, S. Kalyanaraman \<[kaly...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  
> \>\> Dear Colleagues,\*\*\*\*  
> \>\>  
> \>\> \*\* \*\*  
> \>\>  
> \>\> The next WAVES International Conference will be held at the > University of  
> \>\> Massachusetts Dartmouth, July 13, 15, 2012. Deadline for > abstract  
> \>\> submission is March 1, 2012. Submit your abstracts to  
> \>\> waves.co...@gmail.com.\*\*\*\*  
> \>\>  
> \>\> \*\* \*\*  
> \>\>  
> \>\> The Board of Directors have decided theme of this Conference to > be \*“Vedic  
> \>\> Cultures: Epic and Pauranic Phase”.\* \*\*\*\*  
> \>\>  
> \>\> \*\* \*\*  
> \>\>  
> \>\> \*If you are interested in organizing a panel on a specific > topic, e.g.,  
> \>\> history, rituals, Ayurveda, Yoga, Ramayana, Mahabharata, Gita, > etc.,  
> \>\> please  
> \>\> send in your proposal, along with the names of potential > participants,  
> \>\> after consulting with them. \*  
> \>\>  
> \>\> \*\* \*\*  
> \>\>  
> \>\> The first announcement can be accessed at  
> \>\> <http://www.wavesinternational.net/D_Pages/Home.aspx>. More > information will  
> \>\> be forthcoming soon.\*\*\*\*  
> \>\>  
> \>\> \*\* \*\*  
> \>\>  
> \>\> We are looking forward to welcoming you at our campus in > July.\*\*\*\*  
> \>\>  
> \>\> \*\* \*\*  
> \>\>  
> \>\> Best regards,\*\*\*\*  
> \>\>  
> \>\> \*\* \*\*  
> \>\>  
> \>\> Bal Ram \*\*\*\*  
> \>\>  
> \>\> \*\* \*\*  
> \>\>  
> \>\> Bal Ram Singh, Ph.D.  
> \>\> Director, Center for Indic Studies  
> \>\> University of Massachusetts Dartmouth  
> \>\> 285 Old Westport Road  
> \>\> Dartmouth, MA 02747  
> \>\>  
> \>\> Phone: [508-999-8588](tel:(508)%20999-8588)  
> \>\> Fax: [508-999-8451](tel:(508)%20999-8451)  
> \>\> Email: [bsi...@umassd.edu]()  
> \>\>  
> \>\> Internet address: <http://www.umassd.edu/indic>  
> \>\>  
> \>\> --  
> \>\> You received this message because you are subscribed to the > Google  
> \>\> Groups "Foundation for Indian Scientific Heritage" group.  
> \>\> To post to this group, send email to  
> \>\> [foundation-for-india...@googlegroups.com]()  
> \>\> To unsubscribe from this group, send email to  
> \>\> [foundation-for-indian-scie...@googlegroups.com]()  
> \>\> For more options, visit this group at  
> \>\> > <http://groups.google.co.in/group/foundation-for-indian-scientific-heritage?hl=en?hl=en-GB>  
> \>\> HERITAGE AWARENESS MAKES AN ENLIGHTENED CITIZEN.  
> \>  
> \> --  
> \> You received this message because you are subscribed to the > Google  
> \> Groups "Foundation for Indian Scientific Heritage" group.  
> \> To post to this group, send email to  
> \> [foundation-for-india...@googlegroups.com]()  
> \> To unsubscribe from this group, send email to  
> \> [foundation-for-indian-scie...@googlegroups.com]()  
> \> For more options, visit this group at  
> \> > <http://groups.google.co.in/group/foundation-for-indian-scientific-heritage?hl=en?hl=en-GB>  
> \> HERITAGE AWARENESS MAKES AN ENLIGHTENED CITIZEN.  
>   
>   
> > 
> > 
> > --  
> Thanks & Regards  
> Hemanth Kumar G  
>   
> Technical Blog \<<http://hemanthglabs.wordpress.com/>\>, Vedic > Science  
> blog\<[http://veda-vijnana.blogspot.com](http://veda-vijnana.blogspot.com/)\>  
> > 
> > 
> >   
> --  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google  
> Groups "Foundation for Indian Scientific Heritage" group.  
> To post to this group, send email to  
> [foundation-for-india...@googlegroups.com]()  
> To unsubscribe from this group, send email to  
> [foundation-for-indian-scie...@googlegroups.com]()  
> For more options, visit this group at  
> <http://groups.google.co.in/group/foundation-for-indian-scientific-heritage?hl=en?hl=en-GB>  
> HERITAGE AWARENESS MAKES AN ENLIGHTENED CITIZEN. >
> 
> > 

  

