+++
title = "001 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2012-03-03, 09:39:44 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/yLV1v24mNtU)]]



My dear KrishnaKumar,



While I do appreciate your initiative, and that of Dr. Hemanth, I want you to appreciate that during these times when there are hardly a few who really concern themselves about Vedas, or study thereof, any effort by anybody at any quarter need not be suppressed. That is the Aarsha way. Any seed of enquiry must be nurtured. Once the seed sprouts, it might grow into a mighty bunyan tree. Therefore, from that angle, I consider it our duty to lend support to any effort at improving the understanding of the Universal Truths.



We cannot judge every activity by its efficiency quotient only. In that case, the only course advised by the Rishis, is Sanyaasa; as the Great Adi Shankara has shown in his exposition of the Upanishads. Such Ideals, though highly laudable, are not easily practised. Hence we have to put up with the lowest common denominator; and work up for the Highest standards. ***saha veeryam karavaavahai*** is our pratigna; not naishkarmya. Sri Krishna has advocated ***'ma te sangostvakarmaNi'.* No vedic Rishi would recommend that. That has not been our practice.**



**Anyway, persons like you and Hemant should start your style of Ghostis. That is what I suggested. Such efforts need not come in the way of others pursuing their way. People who see both the efforts will automatically choose what is better. We must realise that Vedas themselves have declared that all will not realise the naked Truth.**



**That is why I wanted you and Hemant to do something positively than crying foul of what others do, which is most futile. I will lend what support I can to such positive efforts. It is not that I am unaware of how things are going on. But our crying hoarse is no solution.**

**That is one of the naked truths, we have to accept and proceed.**



**In a confusion, I have left back your card at Bangalore. Kindly give me your mobile no. so that I may call you.**



**Yours fraternally,**

**s.r.krishna murthy.**



****

  
  

On Fri, Mar 2, 2012 at 1:36 PM, krishnakumar Mb \<[krishna...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> Dear Dr. Murthy,  
>   
> Sir, you have raised a pertinent point that no one can object > unless  
> it infringes on anothers right.  
>   
> You may kindly refer to my mail to Dr. Balram, in which I asked him  
> to get a clearance on the topic " Vedic Culture" from the > perpetuators  
> of the Vedas. I will make it clear to you why I objected. It > infringes  
> and encroaches into the domain of objectivity and functonal  
> implications as what Vedas stand for. I am not talking about the > four  
> vedas, but the unitary consideration of the Vedas as a whole. There  
> cannot be two oppinions on this.  
>   
> " Vedas are drawn with a motive not to be in the wrong hands, as > it  
> has certain codes that exposes the process of the creation of this  
> universe, besides several others, that has potential powers  
> detrimental to the universal well being. Scaled processes.  
>   
> But I draw yourattention to soemthing that came to my mind when  
> yourself, Dr. Murthy had chaired my session, where i presented the "  
> Decoding of Gayatri". I did not tell you there, because it may > change  
> your objective way. But the decision to have you in the chair sent  
> some waves in my mind.  
>   
> Varahamihira begins his Hora sastra with " Murthytwei Parikalipita  
> S'sasabhrito Vartma punarjanmana...." . I had not brought in  
> MadhuChanda in the first place, but confined to GAYATRI And  
> relevance of Vaiswamitra. Apart from Biionics, my objective was > clear.  
> But, when you were chairing, I had a thought why this repeat after > few  
> thousand years of Varahamira. Should " this Murthytwa needed to be  
> analysed and again have a rethinking on the entire subject". I left  
> immediately the venue, and returned much later. I had the answer. > Dr.  
> S> Ramakrishna Sharma had pointed out that we searched for aNo. > 238  
> few hours before that. This is one of the Codes of "Madhuchanda". I  
> had omitted it in my work, as it was a 30 minute time schedule. it > is  
> an eye opener that there are certain predetermined phases to open up  
> the Vedic codes.  
>   
> Every incidence of life tells, that the Veda(s) is drawn by Brahma  
> Rishis before whom Gods also stood with reverence and attention. To  
> such an intricately codified super High tech system, can any one do  
> justice by simply drawing " vedic culture" 'vedic language" or > "Vedic  
> literature" and so on. This cannot be allowed to be continued any  
> more. Even such notions like Newtonian system in Vedas put up by  
> Indologists.  
>   
> It is universal eternity, even if this globe perishes, somewhere in  
> the remoteness of the universe the Veda will continue to exist. It > is  
> drawn from the primordial stalk. Neither me or you or any particle  
> should dispute that we are made of the same constituent entities > with  
> which the entire universe is made of. We are not new to this world. > we  
> are as old as this universe and are in a state of transformation.  
> This is the truth .  
>   
> What we had seen in Banglaore was a revival or return of the time.  
> The Modern science talk about matter and subatomic states they > fiddled  
> a Proton Collider. We expect great innovations. It is farbeyond here  
> that Brhmarishis have traversed. They have the Knowledge of space. > How  
> did space originate. matter cannot make space. We address from space  
> on wards.  
>   
> I stand firm on what i have said. I strongly object to such > distortions.  
>   
> I have nothing against Massachusstes University or Dr. Balram. I was  
> channelised into research methodologies by the great Prof. GN  
> Ramachandran, who had strong association with that place. I always  
> wish Massachusettes stand tall either it be MU or MIT. that is where  
> great souls released their energies as insight. But, do not talk > about  
> vedic culture. We do not have such a culture.  
>   
> Sir, you made me say it again. I still object to it.  
>   
> Krishna



