+++
title = "000 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2015-03-24, 02:58:49 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/u-6HzDgAQlM)]]



March 23, 2015



Respected Scholars, Namaskar!



I am posting thoughts of the other scholar. If any error,they are mine,

Please comment on this subject discussed in this posting. Thanks. N.R.Joshi



Like other neogrammarians (Bhaṭṭoji Dikşita etc) Nāgeşa maintains that the Phoneme or Phonemes constituting either a stem or a suffix are regarded as Varņasphoṭa. He accepts Varņasphoṭa as expressive of sense but the earlier Grammarian Bhartŗhari opines that Varņasphoṭa refers to a sound unit of the Language system, not to any meaning bearing unit for example, k, kh, g, etc.. Nāgeşa seems to be in dilemma over the point of expressiveness. First influenced by Naiyāyikas, he proves that Sthānīs are expressive of sense in śaktinirupaņa but in Daśalakāradeśārtha he appears to be influenced by Bhaṭṭoji Dikşita and Kauņḑabhaṭṭa and says that substitutes are denotative of sense. However, Nāgeşa has favored the expressiveness of substituends which has been propounded by Naiyāyikas. In consequence, it seems reasonable to accept the substituends (sthānīs) as expressive of sense.

Here are two different understandings of the single expression Varņasphoṭa. by two different Samskrita grammarians. Dear respected scholars of BVP could you elaborate on this please, so we can grow in our understanding with your knowledge? Thanks N. R. Joshi.

Note; Here I am quoting lines of the other author. If any errors present, I take responsibility of those. Thanks. N. R. Joshi.

  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**What's your flood risk?**  
Find flood maps, interactive tools, FAQs, and agents in your area.  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/5510856f3888856f5eeast01vuc)[floodsmart.gov](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/5510856f3888856f5eeast01vuc)

