+++
title = "009 Dr.BVK Sastry (Gmail)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (Gmail)	2013-04-23, 05:50:23 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/LxTVbmvPYo8)]]



Namaste Prof. Korada garu,



\[ Using standard English scripting just for convenience of machine ! and keying in!) Asking such questions could be a ‘ running in areas where Gods tread carefully !) \]



1. On the point \< In fact , there is no room for doubt \> , let us explore the logical – linguistic possibilities that emerge from PYS 4-34. I had touched only on last word to ensure the reading variation. The responses are coming using both ways – text variations, interpretations and construction of text.



2. Prof. Korada, you have given a scholarly reasoning and seems to have sided the reading ‘ chitishaktih’ (Prathamaa). Astu. Here are the anu-prashnAh ( as the privilege of a student asking more clarifications, with all due respects).



2a) The question is still in the time period prior to Acharya Shankara , and relating to what might have been the original reading and intention of the Sutra 4-34 ? In other words, what are the valid linguistic construction possibilities to explore the meaning of sutra 4-34,
before filtering the views with a reasoning. 



 Why a specific reading is preferred in one school is a separate issue to deliberate. With this, if we need to keep the focus on the Sutra 4-34 and use the frame of Yoga-Sutra for internal consistency, what all options open up ? This is the line for exploring the
‘anu-prashnAh’ .



Let me start with the main word of the sutra to which rest all words of this sutra and rest of the shaastra need to align. Obviously the key
and final word is ‘Kaivalyam’. Rest of words in sutra are ‘ tat-prati visheshanAH’ . The last sutra, as a summing up of the Yoga-Sutra, needs to give the final stand of Yoga-Darshana. Or it should say : Here Yoga-anushAsana’ (1-1) ends. From this point on wards, if there is a way, then it is not in this book. Or there is no ground for further ‘anushAsana’ (- which suits the advaita position and the reading chitishakteH with saptami).



If we now start looking at the visheshaNa for the Kaivalyam , we have
following possibilities: (2-1) Kaivalyam swaroopa-pratishThA (2-2) Kaivalyam swaroopa-pratishThA chitishakteH (2-3) Kaivalyam ChitishaktiH ( if PrathamA) ( 2-4) Since the word ‘ChitishaktiH’ may not be the exact equivalent of ‘jeeva’/ Chitta, the option of
‘Kaivalyam ChitishakteH’ is not being explored. (2-5) Kaivalyam guNAnAM pratiprasavaH (2-6) Kaivalyam purushArtha-shoonyAnaAM gunAnAM pratiprsavaH.



In (2-6) again, the classical model is taking the samasyamAna –padas
as ‘ purush+ Artha + shoonya’ .



AnuprashNAH here would be: why this model of samAsa ? Why not
dvandva / yoga-vibhAga – with three words leading to different anvayas :



(2-6-1) purusha- pratiprasavaH – In which case, purusha would be the chit /chitishakteh aadhaarah/gunaadhaarah )- उपाधीनाम् अपाये उपाधिमान् केवलः भवति किल - तदेव कैवल्यम् \| Here प्रतिप्रसवः is merging (in व्याकरणम् it is बाधकबाधकः) - कुत्र ? स्वकारणे । The kevala – concept is common to Vedanta, Buddhism and Jainism. The explanation of swaroopa of this ‘Kevalin’ seems to be different in different schools.



(2-6-2) arthaAnAM pratiprasavaH - leading to regeneration of Prakruti - कुत्र ? स्वकारणे ।





(2-6-3) shoonya –pratiprasavaH – (Buddhist view is a off shoot of this option) Vijnana vAda



3. Would now the construction \< ’वा’ is in ’अवधारणम्’ (= निश्चयः) । \> be multiple possibilities and acceptable Yoga-Streams as a result of ‘ anu-shAsanam’ (PYS- 1-1) as streamed in to four models of (2-1) as Tapas –Swadhyaya –Ishvara pranidhana –kriyaa ? Where the undefined word ‘Chittaa’ ( in 1-2) can be freely constructed according to each darshana sahastra ?



Further locking up these for Anvaya with svaroopa –pratishThA is another expansion option on this, after resolving these issues. And this will be the question on what is ‘ svaroopa’ – sva part and roopa part ? prati –part as upasarga and Sh Thaa –gati-nivruttau dhatu giving different interpretation flavors ??



Please clarify and help for better understanding.



Regards

BVK Sastry



--  
निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
to subscribe go to the link below and put a request  
<https://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat/subscribe>  
To unsubscribe from this group, send email to  
[bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]()  
  
---  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat?hl=en>.  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/groups/opt_out>.  
  


No virus found in this message.  
Checked by AVG - [www.avg.com](http://www.avg.com)  

Version: 2013.0.3272 / Virus Database: 3162/6257 - Release Date: 04/19/13

