+++
title = "004 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-04-12, 11:26:17 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/uFgYDRwARKw)]]



Namaste



1. Interesting text segment for contemplation, which provides useful pointers on (a) How to Study Ashtaadhyaayi ( b) Why to Study Ashtaadhyayi (c ) Gold –Standard Criterion for Ashtaadhyaayi anchored Samskrutha Vyakarana scholarship.





2. The invoked mahabaashya text , placed in the context explores the questions: Why Study ‘Vedanga Vyakarana’ as ‘Shabdaanushaasana’ related to ‘ Words in ‘Veda’ and ‘Loka’.



 In response, one of five justifications provided to study Vyakarana is its UTILITY to guide the yaajnikas, the VEDA APPLICATION PROVIDERS THROUGH YAJNA.



 Yaajnikas need to (i) understand the action directive from the veda mantra, for right use of material and processes:: In this case, a cow of specific description (ii) Linguistic guidance to ‘ frame a new mantra / sentence using a given Veda Mantra :: for which a separate illustration is provided.



 When there is a doubt in understanding the communication from the given text / word , then action (karma) based on improper understanding , with a doubt will not yield desired result. In other words, it is of paramount importance that the ‘ meaning (artha – taatparya) and utility application ( yoga- prayoga- viniyoga) should be as per ‘the Vedic Text’.



 Now, if a less informed grammarian, uses the ‘ bhashaa portion of Samaasa rules only’ and finds it difficult to choose between a Cow which is \< स्थूला चासौ पृषती स्थूलपृषती > Or Cow with \< स्थूलानि वा. पृषन्ति यस्याः सा स्थूलपृषती >, how to make a final choice ?



 Here comes the importance of ‘Samaasa-Swara’. \< तां नावैयाकरणः स्वरतोऽवस्यति । >. The samasa-swara placed on the term \< स्थूलपृषती \>
will decide which one is the right choice. The text of mahabhaashya may not give the yaajnika solution; but the importance of Vyakarana for yaajnika to make right use of Vedic term is made clear.



 This clarity , freedom from doubt can only be obtained from a ‘ learned grammarian working with a Yaajnika’. The emergent guideline is : When a Compound term of Veda is to be APPLIED for a UTILITY in a YAJNA, First understand the meaning of the term; for which the VYAKARANA NIYAMA related to ‘SAMAASA + SAMAASA –SVARAS’ is needed; This information comes from a VEDANGA VYAKARANA GRAMMARIAN. The Discipline of ‘SHABDAANUSHAASANA is to TRAIN A VEDANGA VYAKARANA GRAMMARIAN, Who will help the YAAJNIKA ( VEDA – UTILITY APPLICATION PROVIDER THROUGH YAJNA
= Yajneshu Veda – Viniyoga ).



 VYAKARANA is just one of the six other disciplines that need to be used in understanding and using ‘Veda’ :: Be it for Yajna- meemaamsaa ( Yajna- Karma - Yoga) or Brahma- Meemaamsaa ( Vedanta –Saamkhya Yoga).



The sideline comment would be a reflection on current ‘Academia- model’ and ‘ Public Lecture providers – Translation makers of VEDA ‘ -
philosophy and practices ! :: Translation and Commentary .



The Gold-Standard for Translation and Commentary on terms in VEDA with
Samasa, needs a resolution and explanation using ‘SAMAASA + SAMAASA –SVARAS’ + Guideline provided in VEDANGA NIRUKTA ( for elucidation of meaning- purpose of Veda). IF this ‘Gold Standard Criterion’ of Muni-Traya Sampradaya is applied, how many modern works on Veda – Translation and Commentary will pass the test ??





3. Exploring the consequences of violating the ‘Swa-Desha –Bhashaa – Sampradaaya’, since colonial regime and ‘ Orientalists and neo-Vedantins’ building their culture-history edifice theories may be a more relevant issue to intensify the ‘Swa-Deshi –Sanskrit – battle’ !




 A link of interest to explore here is a media report on ICPR
with ***Head line***: Objecting to Papers on Adivasi Religion, Government Body Cans Philosophy Meet ::  Indian Council of Philosophical Research orders postponement of conference on religious pluralism because 'there are some papers on tribal religious practices, some papers are by **foreign scholars**.' One of the ‘ foreign scholars’ is Dr.Deepak Sharma, and presenting on ‘ Madhva religions’.
***Link***:
<https://thewire.in/education/objecting-to-papers-on-adivasi-religion-government-body-cans-philosophy-meet>






Regards

BVK Sastry



