+++
title = "046 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-09-15, 11:30:15 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/Mo3awJv-kEM)]]



Namaste



Interesting observation and some points to connect on ‘understanding the language of Srimad Bhaagavatam’:



1. On \< "saMAdhi bhAsha"by Acharya \> :

 This is more likely to connect with Gita expression of ‘ Language used by Sthitaprajna’ (2-54) : 



 स्थितप्रज्ञस्य का **भाषा** समाधिस्थस्य केशव । **स्थितधीः किं प्रभाषेत** किमासीत व्रजेत किम् ॥

 \*\*

 sthitaprajñasya kā bhāṣā samādhisthasya keśava,

 sthitadhīḥ kiṁ prabhāṣeta kimāsīta vrajeta kim.



This ‘Samadhibhashaa’ is the language of eighth layer of yogaanga , called ‘Samskrutham’.

‘Samskrutham’ as ‘Yoga-Bhashaa’ has multiple layers: by Yoga and Yogaanga ( Ashtaanga) layers.



The name for language of rest of the seven ‘yogaanga’s’ and Different yoga’s is a separate discussion on the ‘ Vak-Yoga’ Tradition, which addresses how to study ‘Samskrutham as the language of Yoga/s’ ? One thing stands for sure: The Biblical Tower of Babel model , the PIE and Socio-Histrical Lingusitics model fails to give a correct picture of ‘ What is /was/ should be Samskrutham’ !



2. *IF* as it is widely accepted/ believed by tradition , the language of ‘srimad Bhaagavatha’ is ‘Samskrutham’;

 *AND* ‘Samskrutham’ is ‘ Language of Srimad Bhaagavatam, propounding ‘Bhakti-Yoga’ ,



 *Then* the technical classification of Language used for
Bhaagavatam would be ‘Ishwara- Pranidhaana/ Bhakti – Yoga- Bhashaa’
under ‘ Samskrutham as Yoga Bhashaa / Vak- yoga. Tamil Vaishnava tradition would call this as ‘ Guhya Bhashaa / Siddha Bhashaa (= Secret, encoded, encrypted language of Siddha Class of Yogi’s. Yogi’s get in to siddha class after they attain the perfection in eight yogaanga called ‘ Samadhi’. This is endorsed in Patanjali Yoga-Sutra.



3. Panini- Patanjali- Yaska tradition of ‘ Linguistics of Veda- and related texts’ provides the guidance to study – understand- use the
texts as appropriate for the ‘ Yoga- Level for which they are narrated.
Veda is for ‘Darshana’; Upa-Veda is for applied Vedas for utility applications; Vedaangas are Language Tools. This is the ‘Vedanga model of Linguistics ( Bhashaa- Shaastra) of ‘ Samadhi Bhashaa’.



4. On \<…. in the state of samAdhi the vaighari that comes out could be understood only by another in the same state and need not comply with the "primitive logic " of ordinary human beings. How far this is acceptable is another aspect. \> The entire debate and analysis on the ‘ Language of Srimad Bhaagavatam’ is vitiated by three violations:

 - Looking at Bhaagavata as a ‘ narrative composition’ of a specific period, without any connection to the yoga stream, the purana backdrop, and Mahabharata as Fifth veda connection.



- Unquestioned acceptance of ‘ Divide of Vedic texts in to water tight social compartments under tags of ‘Saivism- Vaishnavism’ which are against each other.



- Too much credence to the ‘ Human Eroticism’ gate to study the ‘ Sacred Text’. Which has lead to the failure to get the ‘ clarity on Samskruth Terms ‘ Sam- Yoga / Sam- Yukta (= United) ’ versus ‘Sam-Bhoga/ Sam-Bhukta (Consumed for human gender paired passionate consummation). The quote from Balasubramanian Ramakrishnan’s post. \< After long studies in India, Fred Hardy came up with a theory as to the meaning of erotic sculptures, such as for example visible on the temples of[Khajuraho](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Khajuraho "Khajuraho"). The erotic sculptures are visible on may temple of the[South India](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/South_India "South India"), the main area of expertise of Hardy. This theory was first expressed to him by people in a temple's environs. Fred Hardy theorised that the erotic[sculptures](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sculptures "Sculptures")on the outer walls of[Hindu temples](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hindu_temples "Hindu temples")are intended to keep away[demons](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Asura "Asura")from the pure sanctuary of the shrines.>.



There seems to be a terrible critical need to revisit Indian’s understanding of their native texts and traditions, and align it to the ‘ Acharya Sampradaaya’. I agree on the observation \< How far this is acceptable is another aspect. \>



Regards

BVK Sastry



