+++
title = "000 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2012-03-09, 11:03:21 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/O4rvrhJHsXA)]]



My Dear Sri Vineet,



The modern scientists, including Indians, laugh at the concept of panchmahabhootas; because they were translated as 'elements' by Max Muller; in 1871; when the atom was held indivisible. but as our Upanishads held, the panchamahabhootas were the five primordial sub-atomic particles, which go into the constitution of an atom.



I would commend you to refer to The pancheekaram by Dr. Kameshwarnath Mishra; published by Chaukhamba, Varaanasi.



The atoms, so-constituted, join together to form the elements and their derivatives, which assemblage determines their appearances. Shankara expounds that just as Ghata, as Ghata,is only mrith; and an ornament, though an ornament, is still Gold only; the Universe, even being Univers, is just an assemblage of Panchamahabhootas; which again are only the True Primordial energy that we call Brahman.



This is the scientific truth. This is what our alchemists claimed; that everything can be turned into gold, which the communist Russia experimented in the 1950's and succeeded in producing gold in the laboratory by atomic transmutation; which established the Vedic Science that all atoms were made of the same material. So the advent of the modern Atomic Chemistry silenced all scientist critics and the 'scientific' critics like Lokamanya Balagangadhara Tilak; who rejected Pachikarana of Shankara on the excuse that Chandogya commended only trivrutkarana.



Now science has accepted the presence of sub-atomic particles. I am higly glad that IITians like you are taking interested in this subject; and if you are in the field of Particle Physics, you will be able to show to the world that Vedas have the final say on the subject. I do wish you that you shall be rewarded with due recognition like the Nobel prize.



But our friends like Sri Ajit Gargeshwari are confused on the subject. Shankara holds that a true philosopher is not carried away by the external appearances that are mutant with Time, space, and context, but the immutant innate material that is permanent and real. It does not negate the existance of the world as it is and its reality. Vedas use tje word Vaithathyam, the different appearance that eclipses the true innate appearance.



So the Vedas, as expounded by Shankara, demonstrate effectively that scientifically the whole universe, which includes me, you and everything else, is constituted by only one fundamental material, ie. Brahman. Yes, it is as simple as that.



yours fraternally,

s.r.krishna murthy.



  
  


On Thu, Mar 8, 2012 at 4:22 PM, Vineet Chaitanya \<[v...@iiit.ac.in]()\> wrote:  

> Shree Krishnamurthy ji, >
> 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> >           I would like to go in more details about > panchikarana. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> >          To begin with what correspondence do you establish > between prithvi, jala, agni, vayu and akasha with the current > scientific concepts? >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Regards >
> 
> > 
> > Vineet Chaitanya >
> 

  

