+++
title = "001 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2012-03-10, 13:29:38 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/O4rvrhJHsXA)]]



my dear Krishnakumar,



From the Concentrated energy, the first things to emanate were the Panchamahabhoothas, the fundamental particles, now classified as energy, thaijasam; which constituted by assembling together forming atoms; which combined together forming different elements and compounds. This is the exposition of Chandogya, and explained in a simplified form by Shankara in his Panchikarana.



Conttrary to what many scholars have imputed here, nothing that I have posted is mine but what has been said in the Vedas, and as explained by rishis and Acharyas.



Mr. Ajit has demanded proof. NOW I demand of him; or any other scholar that supported his view.

The Vedas declare सर्वंखलिव्दंब्रह्म ॥ And also सूयवसाद भगवती हि भूया ॥ And शंकर says that nothing that is born so far will never be born; and nothing that is born will ever be destryed. The Vedas only say that there will be dissolution of forms प्रलय but not destruction of the matter in toto.



Now, Brahma is satyam. Bhagavadgita also says नासतोविद्यतेभावोनाभावो विद्यतेसतः॥ Vedas also confirm obliquely that असतः सत् कदापि नजायेत॥ तथैव सतः असतापि न जायेत॥

In the light of the above statements, how do you annotate ब्रह्म सत्यंजगन्मिथ्या ॥



Just a cow born of a cow also remains a cow, all that is born of sat can only be sat; just as nothing is and can be born of asat. So the jagat is considered by Vedas and all the advaithins as a form of Brahman ब्रह्मणः विकारः ओर विवर्तः ॥ Translating the word मिथ्या as false amounts to saying that brahma is false; which is anti-vedas and anti-Shankara.



Let all those who have contradicted me on this count kindly re-reflect on this aspect, consult their spiritual elders or consult carefully works on Advaitha and ShankaraBhashya; and reply. I do not mind myself being contradicted. But I feel sad that great Acharyas like Shankara and Vyasa are being misunderstood; and sadder that well-meaning scholars are demeaning themselves.



You have bracketed me with Max Muller. I do not mind. But if youor anybodysays that Kepler discovered the ellipsity of the orbits; when all our puranas are shouting that the Universe is egg-shaped \[ellipsoid - ब्रह्माण्ड\]; or that Columbus discovered America, when for thousands of yearsour scriptureshave been shouting सप्त द्वीपा वसुंधरा ; सप्तार्णवा सप्त कुलाचलाश्चा ॥

सप्तर्षयो द्वीपवनानि सप्त ॥ भूरादि कृत्वा भुवनानि सप्त कुर्वन्तु मे मम सुप्रभातं ॥ etc. that amouts to playing a fraud on our ancients, our culture and our country and our Dharma; and I feel very sad.



Let me confess. I was almost in that category until five years past. But some stray remarks by some relatives made me look up the Truths; and thanks to those relatives, I am immensely benefited. I therefore consider that it is my Dharma to pass on the Truths I have discovered; as enunciated by the Taiteeriyakaupanishad.



Yours fratenally,

s.r.krishna murthy.











































  
  


On Fri, Mar 9, 2012 at 6:20 PM, krishnakumar Mb \<[krishna...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> Dear SR K Sir and all,  
>   
> I am happy to see the major drift in the conceptual frame work.  
>   
> Veda begin with an unusual mathematical scheme. The Language of the  
> Brahmarishis was through numerical code, that is not expressed in > the  
> ascending or decending numerical code.  
>   
> Now, tell me clearly, Is vedas a simple is in a language format??  
>   
> Does Panchee karam meant to be 5 elements ?  
>   
> I am afraid, Unless one has the Vedakshara Darshanam, It is not  
> possible to understand The Vedas.  
>   
> Kindly follow the ritualistic process for the well being of this  
> universe. Unless not understood, it will lead to more doubts.  
>   
> It can be asked, both Max Muller and Dr. SRK are right, But what is  
> exact implication?  
>   
> Krushna



> \>  
> \> --  
> \> You received this message because you are subscribed to the > Google  
> \> Groups "Foundation for Indian Scientific Heritage" group.  
> \> To post to this group, send email to  
> \> [foundation-for-india...@googlegroups.com]()  
> \> To unsubscribe from this group, send email to  
> \> [foundation-for-indian-scie...@googlegroups.com]()  
> \> For more options, visit this group at  
> \> > <http://groups.google.co.in/group/foundation-for-indian-scientific-heritage?hl=en?hl=en-GB>  
> \> HERITAGE AWARENESS MAKES AN ENLIGHTENED CITIZEN.  
>   
> --  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google  
> Groups "Foundation for Indian Scientific Heritage" group.  
> To post to this group, send email to  
> [foundation-for-india...@googlegroups.com]()  
> To unsubscribe from this group, send email to  
> [foundation-for-indian-scie...@googlegroups.com]()  
> For more options, visit this group at  
> <http://groups.google.co.in/group/foundation-for-indian-scientific-heritage?hl=en?hl=en-GB>  
> HERITAGE AWARENESS MAKES AN ENLIGHTENED CITIZEN.

  

