+++
title = "018 vaidikagramanirman"

+++
[[vaidikagramanirman	2009-04-14, 21:13:34 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/eNQHb7klnAs)]]



namaste,  
  
1. "All religions pretend to know the answers to the big questions in  
materialism"  
  
what is meaning of "religion" in English I still dont understand. I  
have conviction in veda Vakya - not mere belief. I guess that is why I  
am called Hindu - whatever else.  
  
"pretension" is something close to illusion? and that is close to  
"mithyA"? Well "mithyA" is personified as wife of "adharma". veda  
vAkya is about "dharma" and hence to me does not have "adharma" and  
hence there are no "pretensions"  
  
And what is "materialism"? I gather it is something to do with  
clothes, cars, tv, computer, money in the bank, diamonds, gems? Ah.  
there are no pretensions on that count too...  
  
The veda vAkya is very clear start thr first shloka of the Ruk veda -  
agni mILe purohitam... ratna dAta mama" ratna is "gem" - to me these  
are gems of purest ray serene. These gems are very valuable real gems  
- "concept gems" that can make me bill gates or an ambAni.  
  
so called "materialism" and its opposite whatever is the "mithya"  
actually - Do you have doubts? - Go into a crowded bank and drop some  
change - time freezes paying homage to the magical tinkle of a coin.  
Lakshmi is the goddess of wealth of humans. The word lakshmi has the  
dhAtu - element laksh that is connectected with "lakshya" meaning  
objective - "lakshya" is precursor to "lakshmi" - goddess of wealth.  
And she has eight rUpa - forms. only one of that is "dhana" - money.  
Hankering only after one of the eightfold is foolishness - stupidity  
and disaster and could.  
  
"blessed are the poor" is what I was preached - the thought that went  
on my mind was "you must be nuts". They tried again "blessed are the  
poor in spirit" - again the thought went on my mind "you must be  
nuts". They said I was the "unbeleiver! - possessed by satan" ...  
thought comes in again ... 'you must be nuts".  
  
Some changed tactics ... the scientists - adam smith, commies and  
other breeds "there are limited resources that has to be divided  
between a growing population" and as time goes by there will be  
catastrphes ... that it is utter non sense is what I am convinced  
lakshmi of my understanding is infinite resource with infinte "lakshya  
potential" - I am in a world today that has reality of wealth far far  
greter than what my father could even imagine - nevertheless hoped for  
me... I do this for my children and their children will do it for  
their children... ad infinitum  
  
material - spiritual dichotomy is mithya - illusion.  
  
regards  

