+++
title = "010 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-01-21, 13:20:03 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/sHJ3NYNiSLM)]]



Namaste Joshi ji





1. On \< Indian calendar being combined luni-solar calendar \> .. \< Indians wait until the moon also enters Makar Rashi \> .. \< This combined luni-solar calendar..> .. \< Jewish People …Arab People … Observing Ramadhan… prophet but he insisted on lunar calendar \>



 ‘ Luni-Solar’ Calendar issue **is an unresolved issue for centuries**, with each ‘ religion- land –community’ adapting the same for ‘ religion-culture activities’ and observation of what a new year reckoning should be’. 



 Getting back to the history of the issue and ‘ reference records’ , **ancient India takes recourse to Vedas, then to Vedanga Jyotisha tradition** to keep the observances. 



 Starting with the texts of ‘Bruhaajataka’ and a number of other texts, the topics covered are Surya Siddhanta, Nakshatra and
Graha- Ganitha ( and Chandra movement for deciding the ‘tithi’ for pooja related). 

 **None of these texts of tradition were on the model of ‘Gregorian Calendar system or Roman calendar system for Social business and state governance. **

** **

 **The social governance related calendar system in India carries many flavors**; and is known as ‘Shaka’ - abda’ system is different model than ‘Yuga – Kalpa- Manvantara’ system model.



 **There is NO Expectation or necessity for both systems to
be matched** ; There is **NO Compulsion to match the ‘Yuga – Kalpa- Manvantara’ system model with ‘ Gregorian/ Roman Calendar system’**. 



 Different religions have moved their ‘ New Year observation ‘ timing for their convenience; and in India , there are at least five different times the new year is reckoned ( Yugaadi – of two types ; Deepavali ;

 Barhastyamana ; Hoona shakabda/ Hijari / Kristeeya). Each follows a different Time- Measure system like MKS and FPS measures !



2. **Shri A K Kaul has his preferred ‘ strong’ views** on the ‘ Indian panchang systems’ and want ‘Panchang system ( and also other world religion calendar systems) to be corrected \< to put the records straight \> .

 It is a sensitive issue , but not beyond a scholarly debate and resolving. Pandit A K Kaul. 



3. The statement \< Since there is absolutely no scripture, I repeat absolutely no scripture, whether Purana or Smriti or epic and so on that has said that Makar

 Samkranti\> is an overstretch and not supported by facts.



 As a Sky-Phenomenon, the zodiac transits (samkraanti) of Makara – Mesha keep repeating cyclically, irrespective of the association of a faith –ritual –by religion teams. 



 **The Sun transit is independent of ‘ Moon Transit’. And significance attached to the ‘ Kaarakatva ( Causation Effect of Graha Devataa)’ of Surya and Chandra are different. **



 If one looks at Panchanga, there is a mention of ‘ Rahu – Ketu Kranti’ mentioned with different significances and religious observances, association of the ‘ten avataras of Vishnu’.



 The question of ‘What one should do / observe as an act of faith –religion ( Pooja, vrata, fasting… as Hindu , Arab, Jew..) is guided by the texts and leaders of the community. 

 How each community groups interpret their texts and language of texts – continuing traditions is an intra-community issue; and how scholars of religion dictate; and a study under anthropology/ Indology.



4**. Now, if Indians are seen to be out of synch in practice with a rule in the text, it needs multiple actions by many teams**.

 And in this case, The observation of Pongal /Sankranti is not just a luni-solar calendar issue, but also a ‘ intertwined issue with business calendar of Gregorian system’. 



 The conflicts that arise here are impacting the community. The community observation of a religion event is also linked with State governance functioning

 ( Like Christmas to New year, Dec 25 to Jan1st, the business world over shifts gears from production to spending enjoyment celebration).



** In** **this case, Makara / Mesha / Sankranti which was prescribed for a ‘Yajna –Yoga –upaasanaa’ related observance has moved on to a contemporary and contextually relevant social / community observance with a ‘spending spree / market angle for products / Holiday travel et al which falls beyond the considerations in the ancient works .**



 So, why should one get upset and pass on the blame to the people of past and –scholars of texts and traditions ?

 In any case, the scholars themselves are so divided in understanding and interpreting the source work, because the way they use their ‘ Samskruth Language Scholarship’ is locked in narrow lanes .





5. When the authority of Gita is invoked to say \< Therefore, the scripture alone is your guide>, one should also connect this with three other relevant lines from Gita which 

 will explain ‘TIME and VEDANGA JYOTISHA Relation’ and why people forget the traditions and wisdom of past and get in to arguments.



A) **evam parampara-praptam**, imam rajarsayo viduh ; sa kaleneha mahata **yogo nastah parantapa** (4-2)



and



B) sarvasya caham hrdi sannivisto, mattah smrtir jnanam apohanam ca, vedais ca sarvair aham eva vedyo, **vedanta-krd veda-vid eva caham**
(15-15). 



and 



C) **kalo 'smi loka-ksaya-krt pravrddho**, lokan samahartum iha pravrttah (11-32) .





Regards

BVK Sastry



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------







  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().

  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.



--  

You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  

To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().



