+++
title = "013 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2012-06-29, 03:07:27 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/IIPxyn8_obQ)]]



Namaste Dr Narayanan:

  

Thanks for the reference.

  

Saint Tukaaraama reminds the folks who go the tiirthasnaana.

  

jaa{}Uniyaa.n tiirthaa kaaya tuvaa.n kele.n . carma praxaaLile.n varii varii .  
a.ntarii.nce.n shuddha kaasayaane.n zhaale.n . bhuuSaNa tvaa.n kele.n ApaNayaa .  
vR^i.ndaavana phaL ghoLile.n saakaraa . bhiitariila thaaraa moDecinaa .  
tukaa mhaNe naahi.n shaa.nti xamaa dayaa . too.nvarii kaasayaa phu.ndaa tumhii .. gaathaa 1131 ..  

  

Liberal Meaning: What have you achieved by going to tiirthasnaana? All you did was to wash the skin superficially. Did you cleanse yourself from inside out? And you you gloat that you have achieved something great ! (You are like) a karelaa which no matter how much you coat with sugar it never leaves it's bitterness. So do not take unnecessary pride until you have attained compassion, peace and ability to forgive.

  

With best Rgds  

  

Dr Yadu  

  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**From:** narayanan er \<[drerna...@yahoo.com]()\>  
**To:** BHARATIYA VIDVAT \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
**Sent:** Thursday, June 28, 2012 4:29 AM

  
**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} tIrtha yAtrA related question  

  

Sir,

  
Please see the link:  
<http://www.granthamandira.com/forum/index.php?showtopic=260>  
  
There is written as:  
  
Came across this previously unknown verse, credited only to "Veda Vyasa":  
  
rūpaṁ rūpa-vivarjitasya bhavato dhyānena yat kalpitaṁ  
stutyānirvacanīyatākhila-guro dūrīkṛtā yan mayā \|  
vyāpitvaṁ ca nirākṛtaṁ bhagavato yat tīrtha-yātrādinā  
kṣantavyaṁ jagadīśa tad-vikalatā-doṣa-trayaṁ mat-kṛtam \|\|  
  
I have helplessly committed three offences, for which I pray forgiveness. (1) In meditation, I imagine that you have a form, when you have no form. (2) Oh spiritual master of the worlds, even though you are beyond the power of words to describe, I have ignored this limitation when praising you. And (3) when I go on pilgrimage to your holy places, then I deny that you are all-pervading.  
This is in Acharya Lalit Krishna Goswami's edition of Sri Nimbarka Vedanta, p. 131 of the Parijata-saurabha section.  



