+++
title = "004 Dr. T. Ganesan"

+++
[[Dr. T. Ganesan	2013-05-24, 10:46:41 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/86EwCfAVaXw)]]



The commentary called Taatparyadiipikaa was by one Sriikumaara who was
well versed in both Veda-s as well as in the Saivagama-s. He considers both the Veda-s and the Saivagama-s as equal authority. He writes from the Sivaadvaita point of view.  
The other one called Vritti is by Aghorasivaacaarya, the very well-known Saiva Acaarya of the 12th century who lived in Chidambaram but whose forefathers came from RaaDha desa, the Norh Bengal, propelled by a strong devotion to Nataraja at Chidambaram, and settled in the Chola desa. Aghorasivaacaarya interprets from Dvaita point of view which was the main basis for the earlier Saivasiddhanta aacaarya-s of Kashmir such as Sadyojyoti, Ramakantha, etc.

  
  
Ganesan  
  
  
On 23-05-2013 22:41, V Subrahmanian wrote:  

> 
> > On Wed, May 22, 2013 at 5:50 PM, Dr. T. Ganesan > \<[gan...@ifpindia.org]()\> wrote:  
> > >   
> >   
> > This verse occurs as the third one in the Tattvaprakasa of Bhoja > > which is the ancient and well known Saiva siddhanta PrakaraNa text > > on the doctrines of the Saivasiddhanta system.  
> > 
> >   
> Thanks for the reference.  
>   
> > 
> > > The second half of the verse reads:  
> >   
> > taamekaam aadyaam ........  
> >   
> > It has 2 commentaries: one by Srikumara and another by > > Aghorasivacharya.  
> > 
> >   
> I presume these commentaries are several centuries old , > pre-Vidyaranya.  
>   
> regards  
> subrahmanian.v  
> > 
> > 

> 
> > >   
> > Ganesan  
> >   
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > >   
> >   
> >   
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > 



