+++
title = "006 Dr. T. Ganesan"

+++
[[Dr. T. Ganesan	2013-05-24, 12:15:42 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/86EwCfAVaXw)]]



  
  
Yes.  
As far as I know there is no English translation of the Aghorasivaacaary's commentary called 'Vritti' on the Tattvaprakasa.  
But there is a French translation of it along with variant readings (of course, all in Roman characters) done by Mr. Pierre-Sylvain Filliozat which has been published in one of the volumes of the Bulletin d'Ecole Française d'Extreme Orient, Paris.  
  
The Tattvaprakaasa and the commentary of Aghorasivaacaarya was first published from Devakottai in Tamilnadu some 90 years back, along with other Saivasiddhanta PrakaraNa texts (whose authors Sadyojyoti and Ramakantha, lived in Kashmir between the 6-9th centuries) with the commentary of Aghorasivaacaarya on many of them, grouped together into eight and hence well known as AshTaprakaraNam.  
  
This edition of the AshTaprakaraNam has been reprinted under the editorship of the late lamented Sri Vrajavallabha Dvivedi, the great scholar of Agama-Tantra-s of Varanasi with a detailed scholarly introduction in Sanskrit and was published a few years back from Sampurnanand Sanskrit University, Varanasi in their series. Fortunately copies are available even now.  
  
The section *Saivadarsana* of the SarvadarsanasaMgraha has been critically studied bringing out, among other things, the source texts of SayaNa-Madhava for his account of Saivasiddhanta, by the well known Saiva Agama scholar Helene- Brunner Lachaux as a research article in French under the titile [Un chapitre du Sarvadarśanasaṅgraha : le Śaivadarśana](http://182.72.114.106:8080/opac/html/Browse?brwbuttonid=B&link=T%55%6e%20%63%68%61%70%69%74%72%65%20%64%75%20%53%61%72%76%61%64%61%72%73%cd%81%61%6e%61%73%61%6e%cc%87%67%72%61%68%61%20%3a%20%6c%65%20%53%cd%81%61%69%76%61%64%61%72%73%cd%81%61%6e%61%2f%20) which appeared in *Tantric and Taoist studies* : in honour of R. A. Stein edited by Michel Strickmann, some years ago.  
  
The section dealing with the Pasupata Darsana of the SarvadarsanasaMgraha has been very well researched and studied by the world famous Pasupata scholar, Minoru Hara many years back.  
  
Ganesan



















> 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > > 
> > > > > > > 
> > > > > > > > 
> > > > > > > > > \>From which work of Bhoja is this verse? Are there citations > > > > > from Bhoja found in works prior to Swami VidyAraNya (14th > > > > > century)?\\ > > > > > > > > 
> > > > > > > > 
> > > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> > 

