+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-10-30, 08:46:51 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/fFSEluu1R5E)]]



Bring back Niah Caves artefacts from abroad, says Chief Minister

Posted By*justynz*On October 29, 2010 @ 9:13 AM, Borneo Post

MIRI: Archaeological artefacts taken from Niah Caves and which are now overseas should be brought home as they are the heritage of Sarawak and Malaysia, said Chief Minister Pehin Sri Abdul Taib Mahmud.

Archaeologists from as far as Nevada University in the United States of America had showed interest in Niah Caves as early as 1957 when 122 skeletons were taken away to be studied by Richard and Sheilagh Brooks.

Though the Brooks have prepared some reports, none have been published.

Professor Zuraina Majid last inspected them in 2004.

“As the Brooks are elderly and no longer able to conduct research I would like to propose that the artefacts, or some of them, be brought back to Sarawak,” said Taib at the launch of an international seminar on Bornean archaeology here Wednesday night.

The Centre for Global Archaeological Research, Universiti Sains Malaysia (USM), Penang had brought back Gua Cha (Kelantan) burials from Cambridge University in 2008.

“However, before the Niah burials could be taken back Sarawak Museum must build a special room with specially designed curation boxes to meet appropriate standards of storage and preservation,” said Taib.

The proposed place for this is at the left wing of Miri Petroleum Museum which could be designed and prepared with assistance of USM staff.

“The burials should be brought home so as to be easily accessible to researchers,” Taib said.

The estimated cost of the whole project is around RM1.5 million which includes initial investigation trips to Las Vegas, air freight and airfares and construction of a special curation room and facilities.

Taib also proposed the nomination of Niah Caves as Unesco World Heritage Site.

“The status of Niah National Park as World Heritage Site would be a boost to Sarawak and Malaysia,” he said.

As a world heritage site, Niah Caves could enhance Sarawak’s status, just like Mulu Caves, he said.

Taib also proposed that the Ministry of Tourism and Heritage and Sarawak Museum declare the proto-historic sites of Santubong as historical sites or monuments under the provisions of Sarawak Cultural Heritage Ordinance 1993.

Based on archaeological evidence – ceramics, coins, beads, iron objects, religious relics and stone engravings, Santubong played an important role in ancient maritime trade links between the Middle East, India, Malay Peninsular, Southeast Asia and China.

The ‘candi’ structure discovered at Bongkissam, showed connection with south India.

Santubong was possibly a part of the Srivijaya Empire.

“A recent survey conducted in April 2010 revealed the presence of engravings on some boulders located around the peninsula where Batu Buaya is located.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Article printed from BorneoPost Online \| Borneo , Malaysia, Sarawak Daily News:**<http://www.theborneopost.com>**

URL to article:**<http://www.theborneopost.com/?p=71444>**

****

****History of the Great Cave of Niah**  
  
The Great Cave of Niah is enormous by any measure. The floor area of the cave has been calculated at almost 10 hectares and in places the cave roof rises a majestic 75 metres above the rubble-strewn floor. It has been the site of around 40,000 years of human occupation.**

**The earliest phase of cave occupation is referred to as the Palaeolithic (old stone age) and occurs in the late Pleistocene epoch. The Pleistocene ends with the beginning of Holocene epoch around 10,000 years ago. During the Holocene there were many exciting changes in the way humans occupied a wide range of environments across the globe.**

**At Niah, human use of the caves changes from a location of intermittent use by mobile foragers during the early Holocene and becomes a major repository of the dead around 4,000 years ago. At the same time, there is evidence for the use of pottery as funerary gifts and also as burial jars, with much later evidence for the deposition of imported metals, ceramics and glass.**

**<http://www.abc.net.au/science/slab/niahcave/history.htm>**

**Asian Perspectives**

**Volume 44, Number 1, Spring 2005**

E-ISSN: 1535-8283 Print ISSN: 0066-8435

DOI: 10.1353/asi.2005.0008

**Krigbaum, John.**  
*Reconstructing Human Subsistence in the West Mouth (Niah Cave, Sarawak) Burial Series Using Stable Isotopes of Carbon*  
Asian Perspectives - Volume 44, Number 1, Spring 2005, pp. 73-89  
  
[University of Hawai'i Press](http://www.muse.uq.edu.au/about/muse/publishers/hawaii)  
  
  

The human burial series from the West Mouth of Niah Cave (Sarawak) offers a unique opportunity to explore prehistoric subsistence patterns in lowland tropical rainforest. Over 200 primary and secondary burials, classified as pre-Neolithic and Neolithic, have been recovered since preliminary excavations began there a half-century ago. Stable isotope ratios of carbon (13C/12C, reported as δ13C values) derived from human tooth enamel provide a quantitative measure of individual food consumption during the time of enamel formation. Such data provide a robust and independent assessment of total diet that complements other subsistence information recovered from the archaeological record. West Mouth human tooth enamel examined shows a broad range of δ13C values ( 15.70 to 11.30), consistent with a C3-based subsistence regime as would be expected in rainforest habitats dominated by C3 vegetation. Pre-Neolithic individuals have more negative δ13C values on average (N = 15, X = -14.3%) than Neolithic individuals sampled (N = 28, X = -13.1%). This isotopic shift is statistically significant and suggests a fundamental change in human subsistence between the late Pleistocene/early Holocene and later Holocene inhabitants at Niah. Pre-Neolithic δ13C values suggest broad spectrum rainforest foraging, whereas less negative Neolithic δ13C values, on average, suggest a more coordinated regime of food production and/or collection. Studies of δ13C variation in rainforest habitats contribute to this interpretation, particularly with respect to the "canopy effect," whereby closed-canopy foraging predicts more negative δ13C values, while food resources consumed by exploiting more open settings (such as fields, gaps, and swamps) predict less negative δ13C values. These data have important implications for interpreting the nature of human subsistence in a rainforest setting prior to and after the potential adoption of agriculture by the inhabitants represented in the West Mouth burial series.

[http://www.muse.uq.edu.au/login?uri=/journals/asian_perspectives/v044/44.1krigbaum.pdf](http://www.muse.uq.edu.au/login?uri=/journals/asian_perspectives/v044/44.1krigbaum.pdf)



