+++
title = "000 dipesh katira"

+++
[[dipesh katira	2011-01-29, 18:04:00 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/aa0rXSM9jiU)]]



Dear Scholars  
  
Please visit this link to read Sheldon Pollock's interview to the  
magazine named 'Business World' recently.  
<http://www.businessworld.in/bw/2011_01_27_The_American_Born_Confused_Desis_Are_Ideal_Students_Of_Sanskrit.html>  
  
  
He has very cleary and modestly put up his ideas about various issues  
related to Sanskrit. I feel it is very necessary to voice our modest  
agreement or disagreement to his views. This will help us avoid the  
development of a general feeling that these are the views of all the  
Sanskrit scholars in general and have only been voiced by Sheldon  
Pollock  
  
Thanks to this group we have a forum of scholars almost all at one  
place to put this up and ensure that it is thoroughly discussed.  
  
I am pasting the same article bellow for the convenience of those who  
for some reason may not be able to access the link provided above -  
  
Renowned scholar Sheldon Pollock’s monograph, The Language Of The Gods  
In The World Of Men: Sanskrit, Culture And Power In Premodern India  
(2006), is a journey of the pundit's love affair with Sanskrit and  
Indian culture. A Padma Shri winner, Pollock continues to fight for  
recognition of Sanskrit and other classic languages of India. He is  
general editor of the Murty Classical Library of India. BW’s Anjana  
Saproo caught up with him over a few cups of coffee during the Jaipur  
Literature Festival.  
  
Do you think Sanskrit should get more space in Indian curriculum?  
I would love to see Sanskrit being taught extensively at the  
university level. This is a subject that needs academic rigour. And  
why just Sanskrit, we should teach classical Kannada, classical Tamil,  
among others, at the Bachelor’s level. At the school level, Sanskrit  
teaching does not make sense simply because of the way it is being  
taught. The approach of most teachers is pedantic, and it is being  
taught in the rote manner – memorisation by repetition – and this  
destroys its very relevance.  
  
What does the future hold for Sanskrit as language of communication?  
Sanskrit is dying an exotic death. Over the years, we have seen it  
become a tool in the hand of fanatics, creating grave discomfort among  
academicians and the public. The relevance of Sanskrit lies in using  
its principles of thinking in various other aspects of scientific  
study. The reduced number of students doing humanities India has gone  
down drastically unlike in the West. This is, in some way, linked to  
the decline in Sanskrit learning.  
  
I have been coming to India for long, but in all these years I am yet  
to meet a student at the university level who knows enough Sanskrit  
that could fill this cup of coffee.  
  
What kind of students take up Sanskrit at Columbia where you are a  
faculty?  
There are three types of students. First, the post-modern hippies.  
They are interested in a little yoga and Ayurveda and then want to  
learn Sanskrit too. They fall off on the wayside pretty soon. Then  
there are some ABCDs who actually are the ideal students. They are  
Indians born in the west and want to have a connection with Indian  
culture. So, they spend 2-3 years learning Sanskrit and then go on to  
become successful lawyers, doctors and even scientists. They are ideal  
because they carry with them a great Indian cultural resource, which  
they apply in life. Finally, there are the videsi students, who come  
to pick up a degree in Sanskrit and most of them go back to their  
country.  
  
I have an inbred connection to India and its language. I was lucky  
enough to have many good Sanskrit teachers in India. Above all, I am  
married to a professor of Hindi; I call her the Hindiwali.  
  
What are the barriers that you faced in India while promoting  
Sanskrit?  
I was expecting this question. A group of scholars and I had  
approached the Bikaner princess, Rajyashree Kumari, for access to the  
thousands of Sanskrit manuscripts lying in their library. We wanted to  
photograph these manuscripts and create an online archive, where any  
scholar could go and read about the rich Indian culture. But it was  
impossible to do so. I waited for four days in Bikaner. And they  
didn't allow us to do that. It was so frustrating and killed my  
enthusiasm in this whole project. Such historical relics are meant to  
be deciphered and disseminated and are not meant to be locked up in  
royal palaces to die a dusty death.  
  
So, what next?  
I am involved in two or three things, but I would like to talk about  
the newest initiative – The Ambedkar Sanskrit Fellowship Program at  
Columbia. It aims to establish an endowment to fund graduate studies  
in Sanskrit for students from historically disadvantaged communities.  
We are ready to support the students till they are able to stand on  
their own feet

