+++
title = "001 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2011-01-29, 21:02:43 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/aa0rXSM9jiU)]]



Dear List:  
  
In this context some of you may have already seen the article in Waal Street Journal:  
  
<http://blogs.wsj.com/indiarealtime/2011/01/21/india-on-verge-of-cultural-ecocide-sanskrit-scholar/?mod=rss_WSJBlog&mod=irt>  

  
Once Dalai Lama was asked what can be done about disasters and suffering! He replied, *“if something can be done about it then there is nothing to worry about, but if nothing can be done, then there is no point in worrying!!”*  
  
Justice Warren Burger in his inaugural address said, "If you ask the question who is responsible? Then the saner must be I am. you are, we are ..... "  
  

Maxmuller was needed to say India has some thing called 'Veda' !



Briggs was needed to say 'Samskrit' is very useful for Computers' !

  
Now we have Prof.Sheldon Polock to point out the significance pertaining to Sanskrit.  
  
IMO - It is important to dwell upon the significance of this and what can possibly be done about it?  
  
Many of us on this list have are on an exit ramp of the highway called "Life Span" and it is up to us, as an individual to something a with specific expertise in the individual discipline of subject and the experience.  
  
Just claiming everything is Vead, and puraaNa is not sufficient a collaborative inter-disciplinary effort from various subjects need to be objectively evaluated without getting personally offended and remain being married in "praaNa and/or pauraaNika concepts".  
  
Recently there is lot of discussion on this list on "yaj\~na". many references have been provided by many scholars of this group. When the term appears in Veda including some grammatical thoughts. Identifying the references is just one part and determine their corresponding application is another.  
  
Chamaka 10 tells us that all activities are "yaj\~na"  

aayuryaGYena kalpataaM . praaNo yaGYena kalpataamapaano yaGYena kalpataaM . vyaano yaGYena kalpataaM chakshuryaGYena kalpataa  
shrotraM yaGYena kalpataaM mano yaGYena kalpataaM vaagyaGYena kalpataamaatmaa yaGYena kalpataaM  
yaGYo yaGYena kalpataam.h .. 10..  

  
yaj\~na as per nirukta 3.19  
  
yaj\~naH kasmaat \| prakhyaata.m yajatirkarma iti nairuktaaH \|  
yaacno bhavati iti vaa \| bahu kR^iShNaajina iti aupamanyavaH \| yajuu.mShi ena nayanti iti.vaa  
  
Here I have a question to the scholars. All is clear to me except for the comment of "Aupamanya's statement is the above? Could I possibly interpret the term "kR^iShanajina" as black deer-skin? In one does that then that would mean presence of many Sages (R^iShi) who were sitting on the deerskin as an aasana as they were gracing the yaj\~na ceremony !?
Just like a modern day conference.  
  
Personally, what I am trying to understand why those specific "yaj\~na" may have been suggested to be performed in a specific manner. As all of us know all text has "devataa, R^iShi, chhanda" but no one seems to know the "viniyoga" (upayuktataa) which does appear in various BrahmaNaa's. To determine this "utility", I believe scholars with
expertise in this may be able to contribute a lot. I am compiling various smaidhaa's that were used in various brahmaNa grangtha and find a profound and direct relationship with the medicinal properties mentioned by Charaka and ShushR^itaa and VagbhaTTa.  
  
Any one having any specific information about documentation of "viniyoga" please contact me off-list as the discussion may be beyond the scope of this list.  
  
Best regards,  
  
Dr. Yadu  
  
  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**From:** dipesh katira \<[dipesh...@gmail.com]()\>  
**To:** भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत् \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
**Sent:** Sat, January 29, 2011 5:34:00 AM  
**Subject:** {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} An interview of Sheldon Pollock to Business world- Your views?  



