+++
title = "003 vaidikagramanirman"

+++
[[vaidikagramanirman	2009-05-05, 05:52:00 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/9WZdwdDMxJY)]]



  
  
namaskar,  
  
1. I am no scholar - am an average Indian - I think this is case for  
bargaining like in the Indian market. Saleability of "scientific  
stock" appears to be the question. In about a 100 years "scientific  
and civilized views" has shifted back from God making the universe in  
7 days 3000 years back to what it is now. I hope that is not  
scientifically truth enough to close shop permanently and increase  
unemploy,ent.  
  
2. The Time scales given by the yardstick of the yugas is a plausible  
one. The age of the planet being a billion years old is not debated  
too much. It i s "average nan" reckoning implausibility of the 50,000  
year condescension.  
  
3. Intense Indology studying India alone in 2009 is a bit outdated.  
Indian Indologists need to study Maya - Meso and South America and  
Australian Aborigine. The de ja vu in the language and structure is  
amazing. "chuna" means lime in khiche maya and may other dialects. and  
so it does to th average Indian.  
  
4. On the same count - sanskrit is known better by studying Tamil. And  
Tamil and Sanskrit is known better by studying Maya of Meso and South  
America. I remember a paper on DNA of colon bugs in native of americas  
being similar to east asia - so I think Indian scholars to study  
migration / evolution of pre columbian natives - called Indians.  
  
There must be more than that given in pat answers of why they called  
them Indians at all?  
  
5. 2012 according to Mayan Caledar is maassive change period - it  
coincides with alignment to galactic centre and huge flares period.  
  
Why does e E and o and O not exist at all? in the language of the  
Gods? La and Da is most distinct and how come sanskrit scholars said  
there was no difference? Why is it that in none of veda samhita there  
is a single word beginning with "jha"? But there are plenty in  
RamayaNam and Mahabharatam.  
  
5. Human migratios is understandble and has shaped destinies and  
history but equally true is migration of continents.  
  
regards  
  
-

