+++
title = "014 vaidikagramanirman"

+++
[[vaidikagramanirman	2009-03-14, 12:09:02 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/IHxs35HY-Gs)]]



namasthe sadasivamurtyrani,  
  
i post a few of my thoughts and little work very specifically on the  
subject of "science" and our scriptures.  
  
1. definitions of "shAstra" and "modern science"  
  
1.1 what is the similarity and dissimilarity  
  
1.1.1. similarities contribute a lot less to them being useful for a  
modern context - very unfortunately our pandits seem happy harping we  
did it first. So what? "Full many a flower is born to be unseen and  
waste its sweetness in the desert air". Many many inventors or  
discoverors die in poverty and misery  
  
1.1.2. dissimilarities open out oppportunities galore  
  
1.1.3 the dissimilarities are easy and not easy too to spot - - "uppu  
kappurambulokka pOlikanunna cUDa cUDa jAda veru" (Telugu) - salt and  
camphor look alike but seeing and seeing agin difference is noticed -  
hence also absolute need for very careful and objective preservation  
of the original documents  
  
1.1.3.1 - Example - In modern times we have seen and are seeing  
massive paradigm shifts - and reversals. Was it not only a few years  
ago that "pUja punaskara", flowers, traditional forms of farming,  
gardening for flowers, the cow, vedic agriculture was considered  
"outmoded trash" - But now it is a big buzz word - environmental  
pollution - "organic" and infact - people talk of a doomed earth that  
must be reversed. So our shAstra's definitely have intrinsic current  
day value.  
  
1.1.3.2 Example - shikSha - aksharAbhyAsa - many of us have grown up  
with mothers teaching "a aa i ii u uu" - "barahkhaDi" what we learn is  
the science of phonology - And this is a recent introduction as a  
Department to Modern Science. A scholar in this form has stated that  
pANiNi should be included - yes sir - imperatively not only for  
grammar of phonetic languages but also the science of phonology with  
universal application.  
  
1.1.3.3 Extreme Example of dissimilarity - We are in the era of  
Information technology applications - where in fact we cannot do  
without it - BUT my search for English definition of "information" in  
dictionaries has produced ridiculous results and confusion - Microsoft  
word in its thesaurus - parses it as "in formation" - meaning in an  
array! Huh! So also the Indian languages (that are close but not exact  
as is commonly understood) excepting single rarity - the word "mAhiti"  
in Marathi colloquial. This literally means "measured is this" in  
Sanskrit. This opens a vast for real time any time knowledge - of the  
relationship between "data, information, knowledge,consciousness and  
beyond hierarchy" encompassed in j\~jnAna.  
  
Why is it that there is no mention at all of a "mAhiti yantra" in our  
scriptures or have I missed it or misunderstood it?  
  
1.2 "Science" and "shAstra" are too generic for it to make any sense  
to humankind of my kind that can infact be comfortable with 1,2, and 3  
- beyond that it is filed away as many (my style actually and not  
intending disrespect to mathematicians ... I have to get off the local  
next stop)- A Science can be made for anything under in or above the  
Sun - But the shAstra is not like that unless some neo - shAstras are  
being doctored.  
  
1.2.1 Botany - having relevance to preservation of germplasm and  
agriculture - ayurveda - and Economic Botany today - A brief look at  
the existing English compilations shows an enormous number of plants.  
And so does naimishAranyaM desriptions of pUja vidhAna - of  
practically every deva - gaNesha - hanumAn - sarasvatI  
  
1.2.2 Physics, Chemistry, and name it including political science -  
garbage collection and waste disposal.  
  
1.3. Last but not least - intended audience - is this to be sent  
immediately to Home Minister as addendum to dossier of information  
already sent overseas - or to the "foreign" Universities overseas or  
put up in auctions like Gandhi's spectacles - analysis of this too is  
"science".  
  
Great regards and best wishes  



\> \> Subject:- Hide quoted text -  
\>  
\> - Show quoted text -...  
\>  
\> read more »

