+++
title = "023 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2012-03-05, 17:39:52 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/XgnIvVXr-lM)]]



My dear Sri Ganeshan, and other scholars,



The Great Valmiki wrote Ramayana, acc. to his own words, to explain the Vedas - vedopabruMhaNarthaM. The greatness of his poetry is that he does not indulge anywhere in exaggeration. About Shiva and Vishnu, the argument that is going on - whether Vishnu is great or Shiva - is not new; it is as old as Vedas themselves. See how subtlely he expounds the subject. Parashurama comes to Rama to hand over the Vaishnava Dhanu; with which alone the latter could kill Ravana. He had decimated all the haughty Kshatriyas only with that Dhanu. At that moment, he tells Rama a story that the Gods were once in a dilemma as to who was the greater - the VishNu or the Shiva. So they went to Prajapati with the question. The Prajapati, instead of giving an answer, engineered a combat between the two. The combat went on for long without there being any decision. Ultimately, Vishnu grunted at which the combat was stopped.



The 'Vaishnavites' claim that Vishnu's grunt made Shiva stop the combat; so he is the mightier of the two. Neither Prajapati nor Valmiki give their opinions at that moment \[1-77\]. But Valmiki depicts on the advent of Parashurama at the horizon that the entire RishiSangha led by Vasistha and Vamadeva began to chant 'Rama Rama Rama Rama'. Neither the poet nor the Rishis make any distinction between the two Ramas; but chant only 'Rama Rama'; the poet's and the Rishis' implication being the two Ramas were in fact only one; and thereby Shiva and Vishnu whom the Parashurama and the Dasharathirama signified, were not two entities but only one. A nod is enough for the Wise.



However Valmiki does not run away from his responsibility. He is not explicit in 1-77 because people; who are already biassed seldom change their opinion even on seeing the Truth. But Valmiki spelt out his opinion in the words of Rama in 3-64-55/56.



 कर्तारमपि लोकानां शूरं करुणवेदिनं ॥

aj\~जानादवमन्येरन्सर्वभूतानि लक्ष्मण ॥५५

 मृदुं लोकहिते युक्तं दान्तं करुणवेदिनं ॥

 **निर्वीर्य** इति मन्यन्ते नूनं मां त्रिदशेश्वराः ॥५६

{The Gods deem even the Creator himself as **Nirveerya \[impotent**\] if he is kind and composed.}. One should appreciate that the word **nirveerya** was used in 1-77 in respect of Parashurama, which Rama uses as applicable to himself. So the poet spells out the Truth through Ramas' mouth. Rama, as an embodiment of Vishnu, is the right person to express the Truth. By his words, it is quite clear that the opinion, assumed by the Gods in 1-77 is patently wrong.



Poetically, here, I am reminded of Shakespeare's words in his Merchant of Venice, wherein he says words to this effect: "Do not fish for the foolish ***grudgeon*** that is world opinion." \[***grudgeon* {the word may be wrongly quoted - it is more than 60 years since I read it} is said to be an inedible fish\].** Again I am reminded by the abovesaid depiction of Parashurama's arrival, a scene from the film 'LAWRENCE OF ARABIA' by the World's Best Director David Lean, wherein the arrival of Lawrence, a British Officer \[played by Peter O'toole\] strikes awe among the Beduines; who involuntarily begin to chant in whispers 'Lawrence Lawrence'.



As regards the KaalakUTa, it had to be dispensed with. Where was it before it became concentrated? It was in Him, the Parameshwara, the avyaktapurusha. So he alone could and had to hold it. It is not a saahasa, an adventure for Him, true.



YOurs fraternally,

s.r.krishna murthy.

























  
  






> 
> > 
> > --  
> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
> to subscribe go to the link below and put a request  
> [https://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat/subscribe](https://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat/subscribe)  
> To unsubscribe from this group, send email to  
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > [bvparishat+unsubscribe@googlegroups.com]()  
> > 
> > 

  

