+++
title = "024 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2012-03-05, 18:00:20 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/XgnIvVXr-lM)]]



My dear Ganeshan,



Sorry I did not answer the point that One becoming three is not there in the Upanishads. Well, It is explicit in the VEDAs \[Rik.1-164\]. Where there is any ambuguity in the Vedas, they are explained the BraahmaNaas and Aranyakaas and Upanishads in that order. Where there is no ambiguity, no explanation is required. Besides in the Upanishads, the Godhead is referreed to as THAT only; not by any name. The names were given later to match the attributes. Therefore It is quite patent that God is only one. But for managing such a superstructure, the creator aptly created agencies we call Gods \[devathas\]. And what Vedas say have been accepted by all the Seers as absolute Truth. So there is no doubt about it except in the minds of atheists.



Besides Upanishads do not negate what the Vedas have already said. So your statement that the Trinity is not mentioned in Upanishads is not a cogent argument. The point I wanted to bring forth is that while the Sukta shows that the One manifested in three parts, the three being ONE WHOLE, there is no cause at all as to queston who is greater of the two; or greatest of the Three. All the Upanishads are declaring that the Trinity is only one. The Upanishads by saying 'sa brahma sa shivassa harissendra ssokSharaH paramaswaraaT ' is endorsing the Trinity and emphasising that the Trinity is only Unity.



Yours fraternally,

s.r.krishna murthy.  
  



