+++
title = "025 Dr. T. Ganesan"

+++
[[Dr. T. Ganesan	2012-03-05, 19:44:37 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/XgnIvVXr-lM)]]



  
\> My dear Sri Ganeshan, and other scholars,  
\>  
\> The Great Valmiki wrote Ramayana, acc. to his own words, to explain the  
\> Vedas - vedopabruMhaNarthaM.  
\>  

\> Neither the poet nor the Rishis make any distinction between the two Ramas;  
but chant only 'Rama  
\> Rama'; the poet's and the Rishis' implication being the two Ramas were in  
\> fact only one; and thereby Shiva and Vishnu whom the Parashurama and the  
\> Dasharathirama signified, were not two entities but only one. A nod is  
\> enough for the Wise.  
\>

  
Dear Sri Krishnamurthy and friends,  
Generally the vaalmiikiraamaayaNa is a kaavya mainly intended to portray and  
highlight the human virtues and values. Its scope or the poet's intention is not  
to decide upon the subtle and important philosophical points such as the who the  
Brahma is.  
The concept of trimuurti is not so much an important theme in the Upanishads.  
Further, The views expressed in the saMhitaa-s are to be correlated and  
explained mainly in the light of the upanishads.  
Now coming to the Upanishad-s there are large number of references in them  
especially in the Svetasvatara, Kena, Kaivalya, Atharvasikhaa, Atharvasiras, as  
well as the Tvaritarudra, Niilarudra, etc. etc., on which basis it is being  
established that brahma is Siva. These are definitely early Upanishad-s. These  
are agin supported by the upabRMhaNa-s such as the majority of purANa-s.  
I would like to suggest that it will be definitely useful and great learning if  
SriikaNTha-s bhaashya on the Brahmasuutra is just gone through since generally  
it is not much studied. It will also be useful to know what his textual corpus  
are .

So the aacaarya-s arrive at any final decision on the basis of these textual  
corpus.  
Of course, if you still insist on the vaalmiikiraamaayaNa, the import of this  
text also is shown to be the portrayal of greatness of Siva. You may very well  
refer to the raamaayaNataatparyasaMgraha of Appayadiik.sita which may also be  
contested which is another fact.

So citing [raamaaya.na](http://raamaaya.na) is not the answer for this matter.

Para\~suraama is considered to be one of the ten avataara-s of [Vi.s.nu](http://Vi.s.nu). But how  
do you say that according to vaalmiiki he represented Siva ? Any textual  
reference for that ?



