+++
title = "026 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2012-03-06, 17:00:19 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/XgnIvVXr-lM)]]



Dear Dr. Ganeshan,



Your perception of Ramayana is what the Western and West-oriented scholars have been propagating. All the traditional scholars have held to be a Darshana-kavya, Valmiki himself claims his objective to be 'vedopabRuMhaNarthaM' । Please read sargas 75-77 of Balakanda. In spite of the prakshepaas therein, you will be to discern the majesty ofValmikian philosophy. Let that be.



Rik. 1-164 expounds the Cosmography. I, in my previous posting, told about the oneness of the two. Now let me expose the science that the Vedas demonstrate. The whole universe is maintained by a tripolar centre, the TRINITY. The top one is positive, the middle one is neutral and the bottom one is negative. The top one \[+\] reaches out to every living object by means of +ve rays called Ashwina through a brahmarandhra in the head, and the negative rays called Ashwini connects from the foot to the bottom pole. The three pole-stars pass on to the individuals the three energies - the material \[potential and kinetic\], the neuter - the psychic and the negative the life-energy. Rik. 1-164- 31 refers to these +ve and -ve rays as सध्रीचीः and विषूचीः ॥



If you want to know the Truth, you have go through the original texts and research from the scratch. if you want to go by commentaries, you are assuming that the commentators were the masters of the subject; which may not be correct in every case.

From the above Sukta, the Vishnu and Rudra are opposite poles; and must be equal to maintain the equilibrium; though there will be potential difference between the two for easy flow of the energies. This arrangement further amplifies how the top one can keep eternally supplying the Universe. It is the negative pole that collects \[Samhara that you referred to in your posting is not destruction, but collection\], purifies the same and internally passes on the same to the positive one; so that the circuit is complete.



Your concept that Gods Vishnu and Rudra, are men like us or supermen as puranas want us to believe; are not supported explicitly in the vedas; not even the Shankaracharya. All the references are only figurative. So there is no purushaartha in discussing whether vishnu is great or shiva; while the two toghther with Brahma; form the one tri-polar centre \[naabhi\] ; from which the whole universe is held intact at equilibrium.



These are detailed in my book 'the Science of Hinduism'. Scientists who look into vedas will be able to appreciate these truths. Those who had no exposure to science may feel that all this is bunkum. But TRUTH REMAINS TRUTH. Modern Science also confirms the Vedic exposition.

yours faithfully,

s.r.krishna murthy.



