+++
title = "028 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2012-03-07, 09:10:03 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/XgnIvVXr-lM)]]



My dear Sri Aditya,



What i have posted are not my thoughts on Consciousness, but the Vedic pronouncements of Dheergatamaa Maharshi in Rik.1-164, which anybody can verify. The pity is that because the commentators were not conversant with the science subject; they relegated the Rik as a mere parjanya mantra; which is not what is depicted. If you are a student of science, study the Sukta, without recourse to the commentaries that mislead you. You will start wondering at the Cosmic revelations.



But it is a pity that those who claim to be thescientists and yetperpetuators of the Tradition; condemn without knowing Sanskrit and withuot readingthe Vedas, that all the talk of Science in Vedas is a bunkum. And my exposition on the subject, I have freely distributed; without caliming any IPR's and Copyrights, among all the traditionalists and the so-called researchers, who are still struggling to grapple with the newly revealsed Truth from the Vedas. Besides whatever I have deduced is in line with Chandogya and Brihadaaranyaka, which deals with scientifc axioms; as expounded by the Great Shankara; whose scienceCompendium on Cosmos - Panchikaranam-is more telling than all his Upanishadic vyaakhyaas.



Even Sarvapalli Radhakrishnan did not accept Shankara's exposition of the Universe in Wakefulness; since he could not underestand the Advaita in its finesse; since he was not a scientist. I presume that he did not heed the Panchikaranam;else he would have spoken differently.



Vedas do notdiscriminate and choose who should know the Truth and who should not. They simply dole out the Truths. But they declare in 1-164-45; that theTruths may not be understood by each and every person. Understanding is ordained by each man's accomplishments; and accordingly, each tries to give out from what he has understood. That is how there are divergenceseven among scholars; even about One and the Only One.



Yours fraternally,

s.r.krishna murthy.



Yours fraternally,

s.r.krishna murthy.  
  



