+++
title = "031 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2012-03-07, 11:57:32 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/XgnIvVXr-lM)]]



Dear Sri Aditya and Sri Vineet,



Shankara expounds the whole Universe as explained in the Upanishads. The Whole visible universe is the body of the Brahman, and is composed of atoms constituted by the combination of the five primordial particles called panchamahabhootas; and is called virat. The five primordial particles, the panchamahabhoothas, in their free state, are pure energy \[Thaijasam\]. These subatomic particles \[thaijasm - energy\] are the product of the Karanashareera, the causative force, called Hiranyagarbha \[literally meaning the womb of condensed energy\]. All these dissolve ultimately in the Pure Brahman. This is the Vedic science.



As regards the Consciousnee, the modern authors apply the term to Athma. Therealsation of the soul, as many authors try to explain, is not basedon assuming the world is unreal. Shankara has never said so; since no upanishad says so. Indeed ***Brahma satyam Jaganmithya***is the most misunderstood and misrepresented phrase in philosophy. The word **mithya** means only ***derivative, effect. Shankara, the Upanishads and the Vedas are very explicit* that nothing asat can grow out of sat; and no sat can grow out of asat. Gita also endorses that view. That is the science.**

**There are people who maintain that the world is a myth, meaning unreal. It is false. becasue, if you say that this world is false, it amounts to saying that the Brahman is false; because the Vedas declare that all this is Brahma \[Sarvam khalvidam Brahma\]. There are scholars who misread the Upanishads; particularly the mandukya and mundaka. The Upanishat deals with the three states of deep sleep, dreamy sleep, and wakefullness; and draws a parallel. The upanishat speaks of Vaithathyam, which is different from thathyam, which means as it is. By using the term Vaithathyam, the appearance of the world is different from what it really is.**



**Just as a pot is in fact only mud; and just as an ornament like a necklace is nothing but gold, so also the universe is brahman \[the pure energy from which it is constituted\]. It is this realisation that is liberation of soul. This is sthe Science, the philosophy of the upanishads and the exposition of Shankara. As far as I am concerned there is no ambiguity at all, since all are crystal clear.**



**yours fraternally,**

**s.r.krishna murthy.**



