+++
title = "034 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2012-03-07, 13:14:32 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/XgnIvVXr-lM)]]



Mr. Ganeshan,



Your posting has just arrived. There are no contradictions in my posting. Did I say that all the commentators are wrong?. Besides, the word Commentators has specific annotations with reference to the context. With reg. to Valmiki Ramayana, there are four who have been recognised as Commentators, the four known as Tilaka, Bhushana, Shiromani and Kataka. Similarlarly with [reg.to](http://reg.to) Vedas, Sayana, Mahidhara, etc. are considered Commentators.



So the point I had made was that we need not confine our views to what these so called Commentators have said. But there are other commentators also. For example, the Baroda ORI,has edited the critical editions of Ramayana. They held that *khara* *was an ass* as per Amarkosha; and thereby went astray in their interpretations. I have already posted the correct meaning of khara.



Now there are rules of interpretation. If as a HIndu, you marry a second woman, the second marriage is invalid. But if you are a muslim, your second marriage is valid. Again if you are a Hindu, and you married a second or even a third or fourth time, but prior to 1956, all your marriages will be valid even today. That is the law applicable to an act to decide its legality is the law that was in vogue on the date of commission of that act in question.

Similarly, if we have to connotate a word in a text, we must use the meaning that was assigned at the time of the creation of that text; and not one which came later.



Under such circumstances youneed not gowith blinkers and blindly accept what any commentary has said; but use your diligence to arrive at a better understanding of the text under study; subject of course without contradiction of the intent of the original author.



As regards puranas, the various puranas are exaggerated stories, differring on many details and often wrong. For example, the Brahmavaivaswatha purana says that ब्रह्मासरस्वतीं मैथुनाय जग्राह, [](https://mail.google.com/mail/html/compose/static_files/goog_1076624960)

\[Brahmaa had an incest with his daughter\]which is patently false; and hence cannot be accepted. Again the description that Brahmaa was born out of the navel of Vishnu is an absurdity; which misrepresents the Vedas cannot be accepted since it is anti-vedas. Nabhi is not navel, but the centre of the sphere. So puranas are ancient histories most of which are inaccurate; and therefore cannot be accepted as literally true, as against Vedas which enunciate scientifie truths.

Again there are puranas at loggerheads with one another. Moreover many scientific details are given just as stories; which become meaningless. For examples, HiranyakSha and Hiranyakashipu were blackholes; to destroy whom Vishnu had to take the form of varaha and narashima. The scientific nuances are not brought out why the two different forms had to be taken by Vishnu. So the authors might have recorded the events knowingly or unknowingly in a story form for the laymen, but they cannot be accepted as they appear; without proper explanation. But such a step has obliterated the scientific supremacy that we had; making some scholars scream in their ignorance that Science in Vedas is bunkum.



In these columns themselves, a question was asked by a scholar for an explanation about one of the points touched here; and a wrong puranic concept was posted and accepted without verification of the veracity - scientific or logical - thereof. The illogic of the explanation, even when pointed out by me through a question, was not noticed or was ignored by the scholars.



Kindly note that not all our traditional scholars are blind to Truths; and are close-minded. There are many who are open-minded; and are willing to have a relook on the old commentaries. But it is also true that very few are ready yet to admit openly the truth, that they realise to be true.



Your fraternally,



