+++
title = "035 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2012-03-07, 13:44:01 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/XgnIvVXr-lM)]]



Mr Ganeshan and Mr. Ajit,



Indeed upto Shankara, all our Rishis were scientists. No distinction is made between Science and philosophy, but between Sat and Asat. Not only your but all the interpretations and the furore in underatanding and misunderstandin that is goin on is because of wrong perceptions of the words used. Shankar has not defined the word mithya, true; But the very examples used to illustrate the principles, Mrith and Ghata, and hataka and aabharaNa demonstrate tellingly that one is the casue and the other the effect. so also Brahman is the cause and the Jagat is the effect.



Comparisons are odious. You may adopt the 21 tatvas from Shaivaagama. It is your prerogative. For me, I find that the Panchikarana is sufficient to realise what I am.



As regards the accusation of you, Mr. Ajit, I have recently searched the Shankarabhaashya; for terms as implied by. It was occasioned by a book on Vedas given to me for review. He does refer to दृष्यत्वं असत्यं but not वस्तुतः असत्यं anywhere. He speaks of the misleading appearances but the unreality of the world as such. If you show me exactly where such an explicit reference is, I shall be obliged to you. I may add here, that till very recently, I subsribed to the view of Sir S. Radhakrishnan; and could not reconcile with Shankara. But after I read the book given for review, I delved into ShankaraBhashya in original; I not only corrected my view; I could fully concur with shankara without any reservation I earlier had. Here I am on a firm ground.



