+++
title = "037 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2012-03-07, 19:03:15 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/XgnIvVXr-lM)]]



Mr. Ajit, please read Radhakrishnan's Indian philosophy and see what he says 'on this world'. I agree that ignorance is bliss where it is folly to be wise.



About Vyavahara and Paramartha, the two words were coined by those who could not understand Shankara or the Upanishadic Advaita. For those who understand there are no two truths, one vyavaharika reality and one paramaarthika reality. Reality is one. How we view that reality varies in reality and paramaartha. That is the philosophy and that is the science.



Mr. Ganeshan, Valmiki has given his objective in writing Ramayana as VedopabRumhaNaratham. Please read Valmiki Ramayana in original, if you want to comment on Ramayana. As regards Shaivadwaita, vis-a-vis Vedanta, thank you for endorsing my view, though patently not supporting, that mithya is not unreal. It is good. But you argue about what you have not read; whereas I do not. I frankly admitted that I have not gone into Shaivaadwaita, since I am satisfied by the Upanishadic Vedanta espoused by Sanakara. You re-read what I have said. All that you have done is to restate what I said about Mithya and on cause and effect. I have written in plain English; without any ambiguity.



As regards other Kavyas, the poets have not made any such claims. Mere use of a few words does not constitute the objective of the poet; unless declared by him. However you are free to write a commentary on all the poets. I shall accept them as your views of the poet.



But I have said of Shankara and the scientific meaning of the Panchikarana and Rigveda 1-164, I hold to as the True import of those works. If you give them a careful reading without bias, you will also agree with me. I request you, if you are really interested in the subject, to go through them thoroughly.



Since I have reached my end, I am not any more interested in reading. Realisation is the end; and there is nothing beyond that. You may reach that end from different routes. The route per se is not important. Reaching the goal is important. Each has a right to choose his route according to his ability and taste. However at times, I stand to benefit from the data or viewsposted by others, which I shall be glad to acknowledge.



I would not have spoken; but for the Vedic Injunction. The Taithireeya Upanishad prescribes that what Truth you realise, you must pass it on to others also. So as a matter of duty, I am responding; and not as a scholar; so that one with a thirst and aptitude for a particular line may take it. Itisnot expected that everybody will have the same aptitudes and tastes. लोको भिन्नरुचिः ॥



Yours fraternally,

s.r.krishna murthy.





On Wed, Mar 7, 2012 at 5:42 PM, Ajit Gargeshwari \<[ajit.gar...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> Dear Shri Krishna Murthy  
> All I need to reply is Ignorance is your bliss you can remain in that > state. What you talk has neither scholastic input or has any > scientific relevance.

> 
> >   
>   
> "I have recently searched the Shankarabhaashya; for terms as implied > by. It was occasioned by a book on Vedas given to me for review. He > does refer to दृष्यत्वं असत्यं but not वस्तुतः असत्यं anywhere. He > speaks of the misleading appearances but the unreality of the world as > such. If you show me exactly where such an explicit reference is"  
>   
>   
> > 

> What you are saying I cannot understand.

> 
> >   
>   
> "दृष्यत्वं असत्यं "  
> > 

> are you talking abut Vyavahara or Parmartha

> 
> >   
>   
> He speaks of the misleading appearances but the unreality of the world > as such.  
>   
> > 

> Are you talking about Illusions.

> 
> >   
>   
> "I subsribed to the view of Sir S. Radhakrishnan; and could not > reconcile with Shankara. "  
>   
> > 

> Dr. Radhakrishna never said he is the sole and only interpreter of > Shankara Advaita ( What interpretation you are giving is not subscibed > in any of his publication) As I I have said earlier please read > primary texts of Shankara. I hope you have read Adhyasaya Bhashya. If > you have read and understood you would not be talking this way.  
>   
> Reghards  
> Ajit Gargeshwari  
>   
>   
> > 
> > 







