+++
title = "000 Dr.BVK Sastry"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry	2012-01-13, 05:07:59 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/RPA5P1Kw-TU)]]



Namaste  
  
'Ganesha' is a word globally linked with India, Hindusim, Vedic rites.  
The culture of making prayer to Ganesha at the begining of any  
endeavor, seeking for a successful completion of work is considered a  
sacrosanct rule. The success is consequent of two factors : (a)  
Recognition of Impediments (Vighna) before commencement so that  
precaution is exercised. (b) Progressive address to overcome  
impediments (Vighnas) as the endeavor is going on to fruition. Thus  
role of Ganesha understanding at different phases is different.  
  
This perspective of 'Ganesha Understanding' in 360 degrees-  
pradakhsina model is coded in the traditional sanskrit prayers,  
Ganesha Atharva Shersha, and popular prayers like Ganesha  
Mangalashtakam. There is a need for education on understanding this  
hidden message in a global context, to strengthen a meaningful  
practice of tradition.  
  
Dr.Yadu Moharir has made efforts to explore this line of thinking on  
Ganesha in his work ' Ganesha This book, Ganesha - 360 degrees as the  
first part of a series of publications “The Science of Smart Living”  
that attempts to understand ancient Indian culture in the light of  
science and potential practical utility (upayuktatä) that may be  
associated with various invocations and mantras.  
Everyone understands mundane day-to-day living, but complimenting it  
with facets of sharpened intelligence can be utilized towards  
elevating living into “Smart Living”.  
  
Authors perspectives are built around the ' meaningfulness of  
practice, Benefit of Practice' - the two key issues which traditions  
repeatedly stress in the mandate ' yadadheetam , avijnantam' - that  
which is studied but not understood' and the dangers of it.  
Why 360 Degrees? - Author explains: The book illustrates utility  
(upayuktatä) the twelve icons of Gaëeça and then applying them to six  
scenarios that find application in Seventytwo situations that one  
encounters in our lives in order to make informed decisions in the  
matters of safety, creativity, growth and vitality. Majority of  
problems in our lives can be classified into five broad categories:  
1. Health  
2. Finances  
3. Relationship  
4. Work/job related  
5. Social interactions  
Most problems arise due to the miscommunication of our perceived  
knowledge which is acquired through five sensory organs. Multiplying  
seventy two situations with five (72 X 5 = 360) one gets an entire  
view through all possible angles (360 degrees).  
  
Coming from a mind which is trained in traditions as well as modern  
sciences to explore and experiment critically in the aspects of '  
Application- Utilization' beyond a 'faith compliance', the author  
brings out how 12 significant names of Ganesha in the prayer linked to  
specific benefits need to be contempalted. Thus Ganesha is a concept  
directive principle and a practical guidance for ritual, culture and  
management for success.  
  
The book is a recommended reading for understanding of Ganesha in a  
different perspective to those who were offended by Ganesha's trunk  
represented as symbolic of limp phallus and related controversies! It  
is also a book for parents to explain the Gansha principle beyond the  
story of how Ganesha got elephant head !  
  
For the book please contact Dr.Yadu Moharir directly at \<  
[ymoh...@yahoo.com]() \>  
  
Regards  
BVK Sastry  

