+++
title = "001 Dr.BVK Sastry"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry	2012-11-18, 09:05:50 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/xCyE6FCLcb0)]]



Namaste  
  
**The question is** : Where are the proponents and teachers of Vedanga guided Veda-abhyasa to bring out the Vedaartha- veda- vijnana and vedanta -tattva?  
  
1. I agree on the need for pointed effort to achieve the goal mentioned in the post: \<On a more general note, I feel it would be more productive if scientists who are interested in the Vedas and the Indian darshanas actually took the trouble to get a decent grounding in them, without preconceptions about what they should be. In the process, they can help thetraditional pandits get a similar exposure to contemporary science.>.  
  
  
2.  There is a critical need to build the Global First Primers / 101 course on the topics : What is Veda - Why Veda - How use Veda . This kind of work in tradition was called 'baala-bodha / praveshikaa'. Many forum and scholarly debates go on and on, without getting at the foundational and fundamental clarity on the primaries. Worst is the case when primaries are violated later using supplemental references. Example :If Veda is darshana -ateendriya, how can one start interpreting the same with a historic model pedagogy ? In other words, the tools to understand a transcendental realization also need to be properly presented. One can not use a straw to eat a pizza. One can not start working on transcendental using historical model of Sanskrit /PIE linguistics, if (IF - in caps) these tools \[ - shikhsaa, nirukta, vyakarana, chandas, jyotisha, kalpa\] are totally historical.  
  
I am finding very hard time in getting the right resonance of views and consistent pedagogy on this point. I have no difficulty if it is unanimously declared that 'Veda is historic' Or 'even if one concurs 'Vedic studies can be in multiple streams by convenience of teams'. But mix up of methodology does not yield satisfactory result.  
  
Regards  
BVK Sastry



