+++
title = "000 Dr. Vamshi Krishna Ghanapathi (VKG)"

+++
[[Dr. Vamshi Krishna Ghanapathi (VKG)	2013-11-06, 06:08:01 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/HxfTcXK0y88)]]



Dear Scholars

  

We would like to delve into the following aspects of our traditions.

  

Original Sources of Puraana/ Smruti/ Veda - commanding or recommending the conduct of Vratas:

1.  Varasiddhi Vinaya Vratam 2.  Swarna Gouri Vratam 3.  Mangala Gowri Vratam 4.  Vara Maha Lakshmi Vratam 5.  Anaghashtami Vratam 6.  Kedareswara Vratam 7.  Ananta Padmanabha Vratam 8.  Amaa Somavara Vratam 9.  Satya Narayana Vratam 10. Sankashta Hara Chaturthi Vratam 11. Saraswati Vratam 12. Ratha Saptami Vratam 13. Sri Krishna Janmashtami Vratam 14. Ksheerabdhi Dwaadashi Vratam 15. Sri Rama Navami Vratam & Vasanta Navaratri Vratam 16. Nrusimha Jayanti Vratam 17. Jyeshtha Devi Vratam 18. Devi Sharannavaratri Vratam 19. Uma Maheshwara Vratam 20. Shravana Dwaadashi Vratam 21. Maha Shivaratri Vratam 22. Hanumad Jayanti Vratam 23. Shani Pradosha Vratam 24. Rishi Panchami Vratam

All or several of the above cited are observed by people, all over India. If some of the popular Vratas are left out, I request the scholars to update us with the sources.

  

Most of us are dependent on the local publications, of which many are error prone or whimsical.

  

Need of the hour:

**To get the original sources, translate them for online/ offline publication, in which we have started work at Mysore.**

**  
**

Your support is highly appreciated.

**Along with this, I request the scholar community with source information about Ashtottara Shatanama Stotram and Sahasranama Stotram (of various deities),** as varying versions of many hymns including popular stotras, is disrupting common prayers. We are in the process of addressing this aspect.

  

While giving information, we request you to quote the

1.  Khanda/ Chapter 2.  Sarga/ Adhyaya 3.  The publication you are referring to (Year and place of publication;
    and Publishers' contact address and telephone number if available
    for purchase) 4.  Online Resources (URL)

Informing/ collaborating scholars will be suitably acknowledged in the publications.

  

If any scholar has free time to spare for proof reading, it is more than welcome, to enable faster completion.

  

Online Document for community editing is provided here under.

  

<http://goo.gl/kMTBl8>  

  

With Warm Regards  
Dr.Vamshi K Ghanapaathi  
---------------------  
सर्वं ब्रह्ममयम्

