+++
title = "001 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2017-11-05, 01:13:26 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/HSYc9xliI44)]]



Namaste



1. This is an esoteric subject. Meant for Saadhana; not for
intellectual cyber discussions. 



Please contact off line. If interested . Book knowledge and ‘ Sanskrit Dictionary / literature knowledge’ is not sufficient. The studies using this kind of tools makes ‘Tantra’ and’ Engima’!



The highest goal in this line is ‘ Jeeva-Brahma’ exploration. Mid-level is ‘Jeeva –Deva’ exploration; The lowest model is ‘ Mantra for material manipulation ( ras –Vidyaa /Dhatu vaada).



Modern science can comprehend only a small part of material related transformations in time –space. The phenomenon is called ‘ mysticism / magic’. The advanced debates get in the area of ‘Cosnciousness- Matter –Cosmology – phenomenon’.





2. The traditional philosophy of ‘Yantra- Mantra’ are closely connected with the Vedic statement ‘Naam-Roope Vyaakaravaani’ , integral to ‘Devataa – Rushi’ ’ concepts; the ‘Vishwakarma Sukta’ and ‘ Bimba-Pratibimba’,- ‘Pratimaa’- ‘ Prana’ technicalities.





Regards

BVK Sastry



--  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

