+++
title = "003 R. N. iyengar"

+++
[[R. N. iyengar	2021-05-30, 13:40:02 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/pZ9_BPrVxzw)]]



I also admire Dr.Roy's activism in dissecting and debunking wrong narrations about Indic Chronology supposedly deciphered from ancient Sanskrit texts.

I like to express my opinion on a fundamental issue:  

The problems in the broad area of History of Science& Technology as can be understood from Sanskrit texts are manifold:

  

1\) Majority of Bhaaratiyas interested in investigating ancient texts for cultural/scientific history are not well versed in Sanskrit. They quickly fall back on translations (mainly in English). The nightmare here is about technical words coined and used contextually by our ancient S&T scholars and great poets who used Sanskrit as a near mother tongue language not always bound by grammatical niceties.

  

2\) Reading and understanding original Sanskrit texts is not easy. It is taxing and time consuming. One may read commentaries to get some idea of what the author may mean but one can not be sure. Then there are differences of opinion among the commentators: see the different interpretations for Brahmaraashi in the RaamayaNa,

<https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/cmkVuykdBMM/m/gbuKGjHSAgAJ>  

(courtesy: David Reigle, 23rd March)

Traditional scholars would go only by grammar and break the words in different ways leading to different meanings for technical words, which the original author *in a sky observation would have meant for a unique celestial object.*

***If you accept***\[Vaṃśīdhara Śivasahāya\] understands the word*brahmarāśiḥ*as a*bahuvrīhi*, referring to Dhruva, in the sense of “that in which there is a collection of the stars known as the Seven Seers (*brahmaṇāṃ saptarṣīṇāṃ rāśiḥ samuho yatra saḥ*).” Ck \[Mādhava Yogīndra\] and Ct \[Nāgeśa Bhaṭṭa\] understand, similarly, “that which has for its tail the Seven Seers (*pucchabhāgo yasmin sa tathā*—so Ck\], you are already lead on a slippery ground.

The reasons for this type of Vyaakhyaanas on scientific topics and/or sky pictures are due to *Vaakhyaartha-jnaana-pradarshana* taking precedence over *Padaartha-jnaana.*

The Saptarshi constellation (U.Major) could look like a tail to the North Pole Star (Polaris of U.Minor as Dhruva) only from 17-18 th century AD onwards. Probably Nagesha Bhatta had the *padaartha jnaana* of his times, but not being able to know what **Padaartha**(object) Vaalmiiki meant by the **Abhidhaana**(name) Dhruva.

  

\[As an aside: In the 8th Century AD, the famous poet Maagha in his Shishupaalavadham saw a sky picture of the Saptarshi-ShakaTa being disturbed by the foot of the **alpa-muurti** (small looking) child Dhruva as VishNu.\]

  

3\) It is well known that Sanskrit words can have multiple meanings and the same object can be indicated by different names. Deriving words with the help of 'dhaatu' may indicate some shades of meaning that may not always fit with the context, when the author has taken a "ruuDhyartha". The reverse is also possible, when we take the "current meaning" while the ancient author might have coined a technical word from the basic root.

  

4\) Unless the correct data is assembled after manuscript editing, textual comparison. and criticism feeding some imaginary event to planetarium software makes no sense.

  

5\) A common feature of ancient texts and statements on astral sciences (of the non-horoscope type) is, the roots of the technical word formations go to the Vedas.

This is a serious but more important topic raised by Prof. Pandurangi about the deities of the Vedas; may be for another day....

  

regards

RNI

  
  



