+++
title = "085 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2016-02-16, 04:10:52 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/iF7EQX2avvg)]]



Feb 15, 2016

Dear BVK , you posted



"To upgrade a ‘deshi language’ ( = Prakrutam, Apabhramsha) to a ‘ mantra –mode usage’, one needs to know the deep intricacies of ‘ Vak-yoga + Mantra yoga + Allied disciplines of Veda and Vedanga + Tantra’. This is the ‘ (Yoga) missing language link of Samskrutham to Prakrutham( =Deshi language)."



Dear BVK prove by giving example. Your's is only theory. Bringing the word Mantra mode does not mean anything to me.



I discussed here on BVP that Sanskrit Mantra shastra does not work. I am not talking aboutchanting god's name like Rama and Krishna. I am talking about Mantras from Atharva vedas like mantra on Sarpa-damsha or curing Maleria fever.

Mantras in ancient Yajnas where animal sacrifice was performed did not produce any effects. Again we are cautioned several times by performers of rituals for removing personal problems, that it may decrease intensity but but did not completely avoid it. Mantra shastra is our comforting blanket like a baby has a blanket and soft toy to feel secure. Indian civilization over thousands of years' period developed many comforting blankets. Mantra shastra is one of them. N.R.Joshi

  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: "Dr.BVK Sastry \\\\(G-Mail-pop\\\\)" \<[sastr...@gmail.com]()\>  
To: \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
Subject: RE: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} The or igin of the name 'Bālāji' for the Lord of Tirupati  
Date: Sat, 13 Feb 2016 01:11:27 -0500  
  

Namaste Johsi ji



On \< How can we say their Dashi words do not fetch Dharma? > Any word of any language will deliver \< Dharma / Punya / Siddhi \> when used as a ‘Mantra’. This is what the story of Ratnakara repeating the word ‘rama’ in reverse’ becoming a Sage Valmiki, writing Ramayana.



The ‘Mantra’ mode upgrade for a ‘deshi language’ word is delivered by Saints through an initiation. The deshi language users continue to use the word in ‘Deshi’ mode’ with a ‘ belief’ that they are using it in ‘ mantra-mode’.



To upgrade a ‘deshi language’ ( = Prakrutam, Apabhramsha) to a ‘ mantra –mode usage’, one needs to know the deep intricacies of ‘ Vak-yoga + Mantra yoga + Allied disciplines of Veda and Vedanga + Tantra’. This is the ‘ (Yoga) missing language link of Samskrutham to Prakrutham( =Deshi language). Vak-Yoga is the another name of Samskrutham, the language of Vedic documents and Shaastras, for understanding which we have the language tradition given by the trio -
Panini-Patanjali-Yaska, followed by Indian traditionalists and practitioners. The Harvard –schools follow a different approach from this. 



Regards

BVK Sastry









**From:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() \[mailto:[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\] **On Behalf Of** N.R.Joshi

  
**Sent:** Friday, 12 February, 2016 5:24 PM  
**To:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  

**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} The or igin of the name 'Bālāji' for the Lord of Tirupati



Feb 12, 2016



Dear Prof S.Korada,



\(1\) First question: Thanks for explanation about the word Balaji. What about Venkata the name of the mountain where there is Tirupati temple? Is Venkata Deshi word or Sanskrit? Others have given "Vem katati iti Venkata?" Is this correct?



\(2\) Second question: Hundreds of Saints from different regions of India in the past 10 centuries written religious books in Deshi languages-example Jnaaneshvari by Sant Jnaaneshvara and Abhangas of Sant Tularama and many more. How can we say their Dashi words do not fetch Dharma? Ramakrishna Paramahansa said if child says Ba the father understands it. In my opinion Sanskrit words alone have no monopoly for fetching Dharma. Please contradict me. Thanks. N.R.Joshi



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
  
Please note: message attached  
  
From: Subrahmanyam Korada \<[kora...@gmail.com]()\>  
To: "[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()" \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} The origin of the name 'Bālāji' for the Lord of Tirupati  
Date: Thu, 11 Feb 2016 12:23:24 +0530

  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**Look for the perfect car**  
Compare top makes and models  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/56be5bb783ba15bb77b5est04vuc)[https://ad.doubleclick.net/ddm/clk/300121779;127046920;w?grvVariant=73876c1d971a37e7a160544c9234ca4f](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/56be5bb783ba15bb77b5est04vuc)

--  

निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
---  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
Visit this group at <https://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.



--  
निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
---  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
Visit this group at <https://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

  
  

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**Get up to a $500 bonus**  
with a qualifying deposit to an Ally IRA from outside Ally Bank  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/56c253e2a149853e220f2st01vuc)[https://ad.doubleclick.net/ddm/clk/299703265;126637921;p](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/56c253e2a149853e220f2st01vuc)

