+++
title = "086 Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)	2016-02-16, 13:15:55 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/iF7EQX2avvg)]]



Namaste Joshi ji



1. On \< example to upgrade a desi language word to ‘ Mantra mode usage’ \> - This is NOT a theory. It is a live practice of using Speech to seek Spirit; a concept and factor that falls outside the pale of Social linguistics, indology and science of acoustics ! This is a guidance for live experience here and now as dynamics of human consciousness in motion with intention. Is there a scientific model, postulation and tools for this before making a rejection of tradition ?



 You are free to hold your conclusion \< Mantra shastra is our comforting blanket like a baby has a blanket and soft toy to feel secure. Indian civilization over thousands of years' period developed many comforting blankets. Mantra shastra is one of them \>.



 The day you ( or any one) want to ‘ Experience Thought- Articulation as Expression to be Consciousness in motion and
brimming with Life energy’ - The Vak, as a personal experience,
Then you will be ready to walk in to the practical gate of Mantra-analysis. Till then, Good luck with your post mortem of ‘ Shabda and Artha as part and dismembered disjointed units of Vak, placed on a
post mortem table having acoustic and neural signal measuring instruments’. In other words, the day science gives a tool for postulating and measuring dynamics of life energy (Prana) and Consciousness (Chaitanya), we can re-engage ourselves on this dialogue. The comfort of blanket for a living person and a dead body are different experiences .



2. This theory and practice is the fundamental premise of Vedanga Shikshaa Shaastra and Sacred Spiritual Linguistics , of Samskruth studies. The starting line of foundational theory is ‘Atmaa Buddhyaa Sametya arthaan…’. Further exposition of this theory is in Bhagavad-Gita 16^(th) chapter explaining what is meant by ‘Tapas of Vak / Vak related Tapas aspect of Yoga’. This detailing is needed only for a ‘Seeker-Practitioner ’ ( = Saadahaka) . It makes no sense to a postmortem social speech – analyst, whose ultimate tool is ‘ signal anlyzers’ . The examples of ‘ desi words in Mantra-mode’ are aplenty in Vedic ritual works, Tantra, Aagama – and I do not intend to give tonnes of references for this to the learned audience. The exchange of posts on the word ‘venkata’ – as a desi word and its use as a sacred mantra in tradition is ample evidence of this theory in practice.



3. The proposition of Varna-Vada made by you is a partial offshoot of ‘ Mantra- Linguistics’ theory present in great detail as a part of Sphota Vada, on which Professor Korada has detailed. It is exploring how meaning of a word permeates as the essence in the subtle parts of the word – at the level of Varna and Naada. You are fixated on the idea of ‘ fixed eternal meanings to the Varna/ Upasarga’ as a part of your Varna Vada. This is only a partial presentation of the bigger theory of ‘Vak-Artha-Sampruktataa’ - Unity of Speech and Sense Amalgamated as communication’ , in which the relation of word Meaning-to- Word elements are detailed.



4. When academic theories of word - meaning are built to explain worldly communication of language in a social and historic context,
the boundary of such debate stops at the conventional meaning and connotation ( = Artha- Samjnaa /Samjni) , we get normal scholarly theories of language. Dictionary becomes the guidance and authority along with usage.



 When theories of word - meaning are to transcend the worldly communication and the boundary of local communication, and head towards the source of Speech, then the vision extends beyond the varna-vada;
conventional It transcends the limits of Mind-Intellect combine which associates the word meaning to an object. The meaning derivation is called Yaugika-Artha-Nirukti = The visioning of the True communication and representation of Word –and Denotation of Word. This is Vedanga positioning of Samskruth linguistics. This transcending is the experience of Vak-Yoga ; the Mantra mode of using a given desi word . This aspect is given in Upanishads as ‘ yato vacho nivartante, aprapya manasaa saha’ - when the word transcends its function as a designator of an object (vastu) and Action (-Kriyaa), When the word ‘ approaches
the limits of ‘ Understanding’ and goes to ‘Direct -Visioning’, the shift as ‘Artha-Grahana’ to ‘ Artha Darshana’, then one sees the Supreme Divine embedded in the word ( = Shada-antargata Brahma /Shabda –Brahma). This is Mantra mode usage benefit.





5. Discussing about ‘Mantra Shaastra’ in the academic mode in any platform is like having a ‘Dead word-body’ on table for postmortem and seeking how life – energy (Prana ) works. Mantra Shaastra works if there is ‘Prana’ in the speaker and the same is infused in to word through a process. This is called ‘Breathing life in to the word / Breathing Life through the Word’. This explains why Samskrutham is ARTICULATION FIRST (Ucchaarana) and NOT script ! 



6. You say \< Mantras in ancient yajnas were animal sacrifices ?!> –
It is a highly debatable statement; and a social aberration of practice. This lacks total understanding of the ‘ Inner-Yajna concept, Vak-Yoga and ‘Antra-Yoga’, which is meant for spiritual goal achievement. The mode of animal sacrifice associated ‘ Mantra’ is analogous to practices of Halal and Kosher, which is a field worth exploring in relation to social yajna performance, where the focus is
‘God –pleasing for a benefit’ . The Mantra/ Vak-Yoga is for ‘ Para-Brahma Jnana’ – whch is far beyond the ‘ Devataa domains and desire to enjoy pleasure-worlds. The fad of Television presentations and exaggerations is also a great promoter of such inaccurate understanding of practices related to Veda –Mantra.



Mystic practice and Social aberration presentation of Vedic tradition through colonial eyes is not a good mix.



