+++
title = "093 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2016-02-25, 04:35:05 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/iF7EQX2avvg)]]



Feb 24, 2016



Dear BVK, Namaste!



Congratulations for defending Mantra science for spiritual development. But I asked for Mantra shastra that brings mundane effects (not spiritual) such as curing diseases, curing from poisonous snake bite etc.



My new Varnavaada was for the lowest level application of finding Anvarthaka Samjnyas for modern scientific terms. If you would like to call it as offshoot of your Mantra science, then you are degrading your Mantra science meant for Kaamadhuk in Swargeloke.



I never understood which Swarga Patanjali was referring to in his Mahabhashya. In Geeta reference to Swarga comes two times-Hato of prapsi Swargam. One has to die on the battlefield to get this Swarga. Another is KsheeNe puNye martyaloke vishanti. Here somebody comes back to earth from Swarga.



In addition there are seven ontological levels-Bhu, Bhuvah, Svah etc. There may be another Swarga here in one of the seven levels.



In the SwargarohaNa parva of Mahabharata other Pandavas died while climbing Himalaya except Dharmaraja.And guess who came to receive him? Indra of Swarga of course. There is Indra's Swarga. So how many Swargas are there?



Now coming to Shabda and Artha. Different people have different likings. Some like Shabda and Anartha, some naanaartha, some Apaartha, some like vyartha, some like prartha. I like anvartha.



Is not Sanskrit interesting? It offers choice to the people according to their nature. It is always interesting to talk with you BVK. Thanks. N.R.Joshi



\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**Ally Bank, Member FDIC**  
Consistently competitive rates, 24/7 customer care, Member FDIC  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/56ce36e9f176536e94678st01vuc)[https://ad.doubleclick.net/ddm/clk/299707993;126233653;v](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/56ce36e9f176536e94678st01vuc)

