+++
title = "095 Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)	2016-02-25, 17:39:49 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/iF7EQX2avvg)]]



Namaste Joshi ji

( A point made in private correspondence is brought to forum – for what ever reasons. Therefore I am responding on the forum. I am leaving the trail mail for reference if any needed.)



1. Your Varna –Vada is not alien to Samskruth studies; but it is neither the ultimate or only valid theory. I am given to understand that your conversations with the traditional scholars at Hyderabad has clarified this point.



2. **On Mantra Science: Mantra producing Mundane effects related issue and science of it - in producing results like curses, curing etc;. : This debate is bordering on the fringe of Faith and Esoteric science , both of which are farther away from Material Science debate. **In current idiom of English language, this would be the topic of materialization, Distance healing, Miracles and the like.



Mantra, an esoteric science, is an integral part of ‘ Indian tradition’ and Hindu psyche –Faith belief’ for millennia. One should see the multivalent meaning of the word ‘Mantra’ here with caution. Vedas are called ‘Mantra’; and so are the chants like ‘ Hum, Phat, Svahaa’ ! So what is the difference between the two ? How many varieties of ‘mantra’ are there? How are they to be used for specific benefits ? – These are questions of Yoga-Prayoga- Vinoyoga:: Vision- Combinations – Applications, detailed in Yoga way of studying Samskrutham = Vak Yoga.
The technicality of Samskrutham as Yoga-language /Vak-Yoga / Language of Mantra explains all these aspects. The indologists, philologists, computational linguists and language historians of Samskruth turn a blind eye to this aspect of Samskruth – Theory and Practice available in abundance, right from Earlier works of Vedas through Gita , Yoga Sutras and Patanjali Mahabhashya.



The ‘ detailing of miracles and ways of elevating a sound to the level of mantra is documented in Yoga-Sutra and Mantra Shastra’ texts. These are taught only for personal progress in spiritual seeking. So also the science of sounds to cause material effects and actions are taught only for those who take a commitment to use it with responsibility for social welfare. The efficacy of mantra empowered rituals is a matter of many individuals personal experience. What then is missing and is
different in the usage of mantra in the older generations and so called Modern scientists ? This needs to be scientifically studied and investigate. A modern Scientist cannot say that ‘mantra’ is bogus claim just because it does not make itself amenable to a control group model experiment in a laboratory. The lab instrumentation is not geared to measure the subtle effects and processes of mantra; and the mantra –text instructions seen in translations have much to be corrected and set right. Till then, all that one would wish is to find a amicable way for dialogue on this topic. 



To my mind and limits of understanding, there is an ‘ invisible gap / missing link’ that either the Yoga-Samskruth linguists have not been to explain to modern scientists Or Modern scientists have serious reservation and inhibition to explore the yoga science of yore. This is the link of ‘Pada-Shaastra and Pramana Shastra related Yoga ::
Vyakarana and Nyaya as Yoga- Shaastras. To my mind again, the only way to address this issue is an open mind – traditional frame of reference dialogue on the question of ‘What is Mantra’? as a linguistic unit, which when articulated in a specific mode, brings in changes that can be tangibly measured , regulated, controlled.



This specific aspect is the deep dialogue of a discipline called ‘ AstraVidya part of Mantra’. The mechanical repetition of the chant – ‘Astraya Phat’ with the finger-locking mudras made in the pious way to a technical perfection is not enough to answer the above question. Again the question goes back to the basics :What is Samskrutham ? for use in the ‘ Mantra’ mode ? The answer is in understanding why Patanjali calls Samskrutham as Vak-Yoga on authority of a vedic verse and leaves it unexplained .



One thing is sure. The conversational mode of ‘Mama naama – Tava naama :: My name – your name’ is not going to answer the Mantra related issue for Samskrutham.



Coming back, Who is the focal team who would be willing to put their energy and resources to explore / support this study? Surely not the NRI’s who look for the IP rights and commercial exploitation of Veda –Yoga Sciences. Surely not the indologists who want Sanskrit as a ‘ Historical Classical dead language ! For a dead language cannot produce live effects ! Surely not those who want to make a battle cry for
‘Sanskrit’ leaving out the ‘ Yoga understanding of the tradition’ and pushing the ‘ control on language – teaching and translation issues’ as a religion and culture for ritual issue. These isolated approaches
produces a ‘ social divide and clash of ancient versus modern’.



The dialogue for seeking the secrets of such esoteric Yoga Knowledge in open forum space is not going to do any good for Samskrutham or Yoga. And For the traditional Indians / Brahmanas who look at the ‘ ways to make Gods work and fulfill the desire of the seeker through the ‘Mantra chant’, (Cf: Bhoja : Mantraadheenam tu daivatam, tanmantram Brahmanadheenam :: Mantras control Gods; And Mantra usage are regulated by Learned Brahmanas), this is a debate of blasphemy questioning the sacred foundation of Vedas ! . Mantra as ‘Kaama-dhuk’ Desire yielding cows (- where the desire could be Heaven or healing ) is a given unquestionable hypothesis ! Patanjali did not create the concept of Swaga. He draws it from earlier resources and society. If Gita accepted the concept of Swarga ( and also the Naraka : Cf: Gita – 1-43) and used it in Yoga discourse and Trayee Dharma ( Cf : 9-21) why question it from a different plank ? It may be interesting to see the multivalent understanding of Swarga concept in contrast to Moksha concept in
‘Trayee’ documents and Gita (Cf: 7-29 ). When Gods in ‘Swarga’ heaven themselves debated on ‘Moksha’ which is beyond Swarga, what is the
difference between mantras yielding benefit of swarga and mantras which help to transcend Swarga?



No one in the tradition of past claimed and confirmed learning Samskrutham is easy or it is meant for all and sundry on the street for making a local conversation.



The time has come to revisit the three in-accuracies in post-colonial period that has seriously distorted the tradition of Mantra-Yoga -Samskrutham, namely (a) ‘ deep inaccuracy of understanding the
nature and purpose of two fold nature of Samskrutham’ in its Mantra Chandas and Bhashaa streams , (b) The forced erasure of the uniqueness of ‘Chandas (Mantra) from Bhashaa (Paninian classical literary Sanskrit as named today)’ using a historical language model for a spiritual technical language and (c ) , the overriding substitution of ‘English likeness on the systemic structure of Samskrutham’ . The jumps in post for meaning of ‘Mantra’ - ‘ Mantra for Swarga attainment’ , based on popular usage of ‘ Swarga as a place to reach through an ascension model , where one is received by the Lord of Heaven as Indra’ and a follow up dialogue with God of Death – All these are already accommodating the ‘Mantra’ and ‘anvartha’ ( = Anu as in Anu-Shaasanam :: Anvartha = Following a contextual meaning of the discourse) issue. In this sense, violating this guidance in understanding Samskruth word meaning is vyartha ( =meaningless).



**Surely Samskrth studies is interesting in sifting out the Artha from
‘apaartha and Vyartha’ :: inaccurate beating round the bush debate and useless illustrations.**

**Thank you for the post which helped to bring out some deeper issues in study of Mantra-Yoga-Samskrutham.**



