+++
title = "016 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2016-06-08, 03:21:15 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/StNJbDjHj04)]]



May 7, 2016



Dear DR. B. Mishra,

When you return from London conference ob Neuro linguistics, please inform us on BVP list new research in that subject. Thanks. N.R.Joshi

  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: Bijoy Misra \<[misra...@gmail.com]()\>  
To: Bharatiya Vidvat parishad \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Inter-marriage in the ancient times  

Date: Sun, 5 Jun 2016 11:12:24 -0400  
  

The definition of a word as a label versus the definition from its concept

was researched by my father through his work. I see that the concept

of word creation is fundamentally different in the east and west. I

happened to encounter the writings of a folk poet of western Orissa who

hardly went to school. His words are mostly made up from his own

comprehension mapped to sounds. I plan to take some of these

observations to a Neurolinguistics Conference in London in August.  

  
  
  
  

On Sun, Jun 5, 2016 at 10:09 AM, Ajit Gargeshwari \<[ajit.gar...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> > 
> > Thanks for making me aware of Sri Rajivis’ work. Between I don’t how > qualified I am understand VP. I am sure you are >
> 
> > 

> 
> > 
> >  style="border:none;border-top:solid #b5c4df 1.0pt;padding:3.0pt 0in 0in 0in"> >
> **From:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() > \[mailto:[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\] **On Behalf Of** Bijoy > Misra  
> **Sent:** Sunday, June 5, 2016 5:47 PM >
> 
> > 
> >   
> **To:** Bharatiya Vidvat parishad  
> **Subject:** Re: { >
> 
> > 
> > भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Inter-marriage in the ancient times >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Ajitji, >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > As I observe, Lord or God are iconic English words. They are objects > and
> > 
> > 
> > not concepts. Sankrit constructs of Bhagavan and Ishvara are > conceptual
> > 
> > 
> > and better to be left alone without mapping. Yesterday I saw > BhartRhari's
> > 
> > 
> > analysis on this in the second book of VakyapadIyam. What Rajiv > Malhotra
> > 
> > 
> > has done, is to create a minimum list of words which should be > reproduced
> > 
> > 
> > as such. I endorse the idea and request the scholars to help convey > the
> > 
> > 
> > concept in English for the benefit of the youth. Many well known > translations >
> 
> > 
> > suffer in this quick casual "dictionary words." >
> 
> > 
> > Thank you. >
> 
> > 
> > BM >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > On Fri, Jun 3, 2016 at 8:09 AM, Ajit Gargeshwari > \<[ajit.gar...@gmail.com]()\> wrote: >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > I don’t need to Know what Shri Rajiv has written. I wanted to say > Bhagavan does not mean Lord always >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >  style="border:none;border-top:solid #b5c4df 1.0pt;padding:3.0pt 0in 0in 0in"> >
> **From:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() > \[mailto:[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\] **On Behalf Of** Bijoy > Misra  
> **Sent:** Friday, June 3, 2016 4:30 PM  
> **To:** Bharatiya Vidvat parishad  
> **Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Inter-marriage in the ancient > times >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Use Bhagavan, why translate? Rajiv wrote about this in his book. >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > On Fri, Jun 3, 2016 at 6:38 AM, Ajit Gargeshwari > \<[ajit.gar...@gmail.com]()\> wrote: >
> 
> > 
> > The word Bhagavan does not mean Lord. The word indicates addressing a > person respectfully see Panini on this. Many beliefs if used with > historic sense is also history why narrow down definitions of what is > History? >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > --  
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 













\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**InsiderTechAdvice**  
The U.S Government Are Spying On You Online. Stop Them In Seconds  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/575741991439a41981268st02vuc)<http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/575741991439a41981268st02vuc>

