+++
title = "093 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-02-26, 17:58:59 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/knNtVpGpOhA)]]



Namaste 



\< **What a great damage India has done to itself in the last seventy years or so!> **

****

***And my expansion on this is* \< the damage caused by Home teams
who voluntarily and willingly gave up constructions of Samskrutham by
native traditions of ‘Swa- bhashaa –shaastra –dharma’ and imposed
‘para-bhashaa –desha- dharma’ forcefully to keep ‘Samskrutham as
Sanskrit in the company of language streams traced to IE origin ’- A legacy of three hundred years .**

****

**A unified action would be needed to contain the continuance of the above damage ! And this starts with an acknowledgement of where we are and why . **



 I would like to suggest three points to make a course correction to start the first step of healing from the
‘self-inflicted’ damages.



A) **Restoring the definitional and functional clarity and unity between Chandas and Bhashaa:** between Chandas (‘ Vedic / Vaidika) Varnamaalaa (given in Pratishaakhyas and Shikhsaa, used for Mantras)
and Bhashaa Varna-maalaa ( given in laukika Shikshaa works and used for teaching Samskruth forvyavahaara.



 The last authentic recognition, listing and mapping of Samskruth varna-maalaa aksharas to Devataas - comes in the work of Acharya Madwa ( Chakrabja Mandala).



 " ळ " kaara of saMskRitaM is clearly listed and associated with a Vishnu Devataa swaroopa. This is a part oftradiitonal mantra-maatrukaa nyaasas,



 The same practice is seen in Rudra- Parayanam, many Tantra works, Prarthanas. This is a consistent and continuing practice.



 Ignoring all this and making tall claims that ‘" ळ " kaara in saMskRitaM is an intruded sound or a post Paninian sound or Panini did a great injustice by not including " ळ " kaara in maheswara sutra .. is all ‘ prajnaa –vaada’ (= imaginary constructions of self damage ).



B**) Restoring the definitional clarity of what constitutes ‘Samskrutham’ and what makes ‘Samskruth to become Prakrut ( not the other way around )** . This is Understanding the relation between Samskrutham and Prakruts/ Apabhramsha :: Daivee and Maanushee Vaak : by the standards provided by ‘Bharturhari- Vaakyapadeeya quoted below by Sri Paturi ji: reading



शब्दः संस्कारहीनॊ यॊ गौर् इति प्रयुयुक्ष्यतॆ /

तम् अपभ्रंशम् इच्छन्ति विशिष्टार्थनिवॆशिनम् // वाक्य\_१।१७५ //

This is the tradiiton which Hemachandra Suri has endoresed in his work on Prakrut Gramamr following what Bharata had indicated in NAtya Shaastra ; and what existed in Mahabharata period.

Melccha, Apabhramsha Prakrut are social usage derivatives of Samskrutham. 

When ‘Vyakarana based Shada-Damskaara’ is not complete on the final world /sentence, that expression is called an ‘ Apa-Bhramsha’. The measure of slippage (= apa- bhramsha) marks the unique name for the specific Prakrutham. One Samskrutham – Many Prakrutham ;; One Prakrutham- Many Desi’s ; The unspecified mix of allSamskrut- Prarktu-Desi is called ‘ Mlecchita’ (- corrupted by desire .

( - icchita = desired , inability based , practical convenience ) ;
pleasure (- mlaa ) . The desire is to corrupt the language( mlaa – icchita). The



C) **Restoration of ‘ Vak-Yoga’ approach in understanding the Vedic documents: That is Restoring ‘Vedanga-Vyakarana Paddhati’**
approved by Patanjali-Tradition of studying Samskrutham as ‘ Vak-Yoga’: The Yoga way of studying Samskrutham.



Samskrutha Bharati work has created an ambience and welcome platform to introduce the corrective steps as above.



Regards

BVK Sastry







To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().

  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

  
  



--

Nagaraj Paturi



Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA.





