+++
title = "003 S.Subrahmanya"

+++
[[S.Subrahmanya	2016-01-20, 12:16:39 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/F2Orbyn6Gr4)]]



  

Thanks to Dr.Paturi for bringing this blog-thread to this lists attention and posting from that other "occi-indologist" list.

  

 imho, this blog thread shows how Sanskrit is seen by this bunch of eurocentric indologists. While Sri.Nagaraja Rao is a wonderful individual and a great scholar,

 to the eurocentric observers - he is nothing more than a performing native informant. The eurocentics would applaud him like how one would clap to a

 performing trapeze artist.

  

 During colonization period, the Brits would hire bunches of brahmins cheaply to help them collect , interpret and gain all possible knowledge

 and then apply their own eurocentric models and spit out a supposed "objective" scholarship under their own name. Of course, the poor brahmins of those

 days were desperate and poverty stricken and also probably had no idea of their usefulness to the brits.

  

 Post Indian independence, this kind of activity has continued - with grovelling and pliant sanskrit scholars purchasable in a slightly different form.

 Sanskrit scholars are coopted by the eurocentric academia and india is interpreted according to the fashionable European academic dogma of the day.

 A few years ago, there were a few indian-academics who were siding with eurosupremacist indologists on how hindu traditions must be reflected

 in american textbooks - of course, those desi collaborators may then get rewarded with tenure, gain status in western academia (like how a house-slave

 would be superior to a field-slave) , get invited to conferences, get a book deal with university publishing etc.



 One should analyse that blog thread and the replies there keeping these larger points in mind.

  

 Regards,

 Subrahmanya



