+++
title = "011 S.Subrahmanya"

+++
[[S.Subrahmanya	2016-01-27, 17:00:43 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/F2Orbyn6Gr4)]]



  

  

1\. First, lets not have this fetish about Nobel prizes - specifically the ones related to economics, literature and peace.

  Please read the academic debate around efficient market hypothesis.

 

  

2\. In the US social/humanities academic system, including Indology, the students have to apply existing models/theories.

  If one does not, then they may not get a PhD...and after getting a PhD they may not get a job and later tenure. There are gatekeepers who keep this going.

  As I had mentioned earlier the "incentives" for Indian scholars is in many forms - completing PhD's ,post-docs, tenure, invites to conference, book publishing by Univs,

  visiting/temp teaching positions etc.

  Only those who play by these eurocentric models/theories get entry - the rest are blackballed.

  There was one major PhD, who did not get tenure and had to leave the indology field. That person then admitted that the

   papers that he/she had written as an academic were due to pressure to get Tenure.

  There has been mutual backscratching from within India as well - for positions as well issues like "Padma" awards etc.

  I hope that with RTI we can get information on who lobbied for these awards.

   Yes, there have been people who have been purchased or if you prefer, have been willingly co-opted by a eurocentric indological academia.

  

  Also, for more info, please watch this video

  Reversing the Gaze on Western Indology, lecture at Karnataka Sanskrit University

  <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j84sUcOTBRM>

  

  Thats it from my end on this thread.

  S. 



