+++
title = "027 Dr.R.P.Sharma"

+++
[[Dr.R.P.Sharma	2020-01-12, 10:43:32 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/wP8WeNG5dEk)]]



Please understand the Truths and politics on CAA, NRC and NPR - 10 Point Narration by Srinivas Nitturi  
1. Congress party is the one who while being in the opposition asked for CAA and opposing after its implementation. NOTE: The then muslim speaker adds saying the Pakistani minorities needs to be taken care of too. here is the link <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cmBqCWbqL_I>  
2. 1st time ever NRC in India for the state of Assam was created in 1951. No BJP Amit Shah or Modi were in Power  
3. Supreme Court started directing and monitoring the process in 2013 for NRC in Assam. Again No BJP,Amit Shah or Modi were in Power in 2013  
4. The idea of Country wide NRC and NPR was mooted by the UPA government to which all these parties who are protesting and instigating people were part of and they had no trouble then. Infact it was Mamatha banerjee who had made ruckus in parliament for wanting these things and opposing Bangladeshi illegal immigrants . Link <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Tc-ZthNre4I>  
5. In 2010, the NPR was created for the first time with the names of 119 crore residents of India. So who was in power then? It was not even made it to the breaking news. Otherwise we all had known that this happened. Who was in power? Not BJP  
6. Detention Center- The first detention centre in Assam came up in 2008, whenBJP was NOT in power.In 2011 the then NON BJP government built three more camps in the region, so now who is making all the hue and cry about detention centers being built. The very own people who started it  
7. Almost every country has national registry of citizens. From Pakistan to America and every country has illegal immigrants, Refugees which they don’t want to include in the register. So why are we reluctant to this. Because of of our so called pseudo secularisits. But for their selfishness they are ruining the future generations of this great country. The real patriots are supporting these measures. Check some of these. Muslim in Delhi <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jL4PGHPKV28> and muslim in Hyderabad <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mt6hMTx5RWQ> and christian and GOA congress president <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T9Yen-OXVP8>  
8. Now why should any country have the register when you are not really throwing out all non citizens and spend money and time on this. It Is because at least you know who are eligible to be the real beneficiaries of the schemes and most importantly in the democratic process who should have a right to vote. Other things like who should have temporary visas who should have temporary work visas can also be decided on case to case basis.Just listed couple reasons here there are more  
9. Are we or any country send back any illegal immigrants or refugees? The Answer is yes. Almost all the countries who had faced this problem of mass refugee problem or illegal immigrants have done or made plans to send them back. The countries include poor to the most advanced countries from Asia, Europe, America, Africa. So why we should not. Even we are sending them back and some countries have already agreed to take them back and it is happening as I write. Especially muslim countries are sending the muslim brothers who have been prosecuted in their home countries are sending them back even before the situation in the home country have not been improved. Indiais not doing that, Because we have a kind heart. Dont forget these very muslim countries who do that in their country point at us for being harsh on muslims.  
10. In Assam NRC when in late 2019 the number of people who were not able to prove their citizenship with all the problems that were shown to oppose were 1.9 million out of 33 million and today that number has come down to 15 lakh people. So saying people for generations or forever will be stateless is bullshit. 1.4 million people could prove by other means that they were localites. As each and every passing day that number would come down as all real citizens will be identified.  
11. Last but most important is to see who are the ones who are asking for a secular country and see their past and how they played minority vote bank politics and try to appease only a section of people because their vote is important. See the people who had all their own colored flag are carrying tri color now. People who have been protesting against a court order to singing the national anthem are singing now voluntarily. Who were saying that forcing a national flag or signing national anthem or saying Vandemataram/Jai hind should not be done to prove patriotism or should not be seen as patriotism are the very own people who are doing all that just for politics and voluntarily again to prove their optimistic patriotism. They have Gandhi photo in the front of march and do violence in the back. If you dont standup for your country now against them in whatever way you can, you or your children would not even stand a chance one day to say even Jai Hind, forget about saying I am a hindu. JAI HIND JAI BHARATH

