+++
title = "032 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-03-09, 10:03:15 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/QuYaIxmsaBw)]]



Namaste



1. Bijoy Misra ji : To make a specific response on \< any narration in Mahabharata conveying tissue removal or tissue repair>, the following may be worth exploring ( Keeping apart the faith belief issues) :



 a) The narrative of birth of Shishupala : Shishupala at the time of birth is said to have been born with three eyes and four hands. The ‘ divine voice’ says that ‘ One whose touch makes the physical deformities of the child to disappear will be the final death causer for the child. It so happens that Sri Krishna was in a family celebration and his touch caused the deformities of the child ( extra limbs and parts) to disappear, making the child ‘ normal’. The mother of Shishupala makes a prayer and asks Krishna not to kill the child. Krishna says he will tolerate ‘ one hundred insults ‘ before he takes any action.

 The point I am trying to make is this: Focus on how a child with birth deformities was restored to normalcy ? Does this point out to some skills of ‘Ayurveda- Surgery’ which Sri Krishna new ? and administered ?



b\) The narrative of Jarasandha’s birth: The King was blessed with a fruit to yield a child. The king, out of live, cut the fruit to two and gave it two queens. Each gave birth to ‘half-child ( left and right)’ both alive. King was unable to see such an ugly child and threw both pieces outside of the fort. A demoness lurking outside of the fort looked at these two pieces and thought it was ‘ fresh meat’ good to eat. She picked both pieces and ‘ joined them’ like a sandwich. Lo! The child came to full life. The demoness felt a motherly love to the child and nurtured it. This was Jarasandha, who attacked Sri Krishna eighteen times, before he was killed eventually by Bhima. The death of Jarasandha is also interesting. He had to be cut asunder exactly half by body and thrown in inverse way so that his bodies would not join back and restore his life.



2\. Now, should these be taken as ‘ data’ for further exploration connecting history aspects –narratives from ‘ itihasa- Purana’ to ‘ Science – mystic parts of Ayurveda and Jyotisha’( ?) – What knowledge of ‘Samskrutham’ is right to explore this ? Would the understanding of \< la- La \> and accents make a critical difference in understanding the \< Science we to seem to have had \> is an open ended question. It seems to be game between Pride and Prudent Academic scholarship.
Would Govindaraja’s gloss quoted \< As Govinda-rāja correctly indicates, the reference is to a cutting done by a barber because the life of a delivering woman will otherwise be lost — in a kind of 'sarva-nāśe samutpanne ardhaṁ tyajati paṇḍitaḥ’ situation. > : is a memory recollection, a faith – belief commentators note or state of science that prevailed at the time of Govindaraja …. Opinions differ.



In any case, the punch bag receiving the hit is ‘ How do we understand / are we understanding a document narrated in Sanskrit’ ?

(Mahabharata Sanskrit source references can be filled by some body; I don’t have ready reference for this. It is mostly in Rajasuya parva).



Regards

BVK Sastry 





**From:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() \[mailto:[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\] **On Behalf Of** Bijoy Misra  
**Sent:** Tuesday, 6 March, 2018 9:20 PM  
**To:** Bharatiya Vidvat parishad  
**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} surgical procedure in Valmiki



We seem to have veered off.









