+++
title = "037 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-03-13, 00:43:30 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/QuYaIxmsaBw)]]



Namaste



1. When one accepts ‘ Ashareeravani’ and ‘Divine powers of Lord Krishna’, we are not discussing any thing about science as modern teams see it.



2. In Jarasandhas case, the story is at least five millennium old !
The modern versions of this could be seen in Hollywood movies’ like ‘ Terminator’ are modern thinking! Where a single drop let as DNA restores the full ‘Terminator’. ( Enjoy the WIKI note on this at <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Terminator_Genisys> )



In discussions like this, looking for ‘Science in ancient texts’, one needs to see separate – ‘The context of Idea’ and the ‘ plausibility of a science which backs such an idea to be prevalent and sustaining’. Take the case of ‘ Golden Deer’ – the raakshasa Maareecha transformation mentioned in Srimad Valmiki Ramayana. What one wants to see in this narrative’ depends on what lens one is using. The readers of Ramayana in India may not get all the doubts as a reader from beyond India and different cultural context might get.



3. Mahabharata , has been a continuously evolving verbal narrative; and the document (freezed form) of this is of a recent origin ( Kumbhakonam versions, Critical edition and the like). What the narrator Suta-Puranika added and from where, for which audience and context is difficult to ascertain. So, \< The point I had in mind that **the stanza appeared to denote that the tools were used to remove dead tissues** from the body \> the Mahabharata stanza , unless it gets corroborated to some Ayurveda related texts can at best be a reference with the side note: needs further exploration.



As I say many times in a lighter vein : Indians believe in a snake with thousand hoods serving as the bed of Vishnu; Bible speaks of a flying speaking seducing snake. Scientists are yet to figure out anything that matches either of these descriptions !



--  

You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  

To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().



