+++
title = "006 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2011-12-04, 07:32:33 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/gvJEq4Mt9HY)]]



Dear scholars,

It is true that there is no compartment like vedic science and modern science. Both are one and the same. But when we speak of Newtons Laws, Berzelius hypothesis, Dalton's theory or Avagadro's constant; the adjectives indicate only the sources, and nothing beyond that. similarly by the Term Vedic science, what is meant is the sciece that is explicit (or even implicit) in the Vedas. Similarly the term Modern Science signifies the developments in the last one century. Just as we speak of jeevatma and paramatma; but there is only one atma - देही in singular.

But unfortunately, science is thoroughly mistaken for events by the present researchers. It is like lookin for an apple fall in place of the Newtons principles of inertia. Dr. iyengar's effort is one like that. That is why Dr. N.S. Rajaram is confused. so are many scholars.

But science consists in the body of precise knowledge, the fundamentals, not always associated by specific events. Modern Science is mostly the outcome of accidents. the apple fall making Newton understand the gravity, the water spilling from the bath tub that led Archimedes realise therelative density or Rutherford's lapse in exposing the photograph to the sun on a rainy day, were all accidents. But in the 20th century, the Vedic translations into English have modified science study into a systematic study, as for example Madame Curie's discovery of curium or Stephen Hawking's study of Blackholes.



So, what we should focus in our research is not the events that mark alone, which will be secondary; but to principia that wil be fundamental. There is much fundamental science material in Vedas; which our traditional scholars have ignored due to non-recognition; and the Scientists inIndiaare still not prepared to step in the realm of Vedas. But it is the case with Germany; where scientists are looking into the Vedas. I am glad that Dr. Ganesh concurs with me; since he is equally at ease with the traditional subjects and with modern technology.



But it is a wonder how the TIFR (ICTS) is running after applications than the fundamentals; which are aplenty in the Vedas.

s.r.krishna murthy  



