+++
title = "008 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2011-12-04, 20:47:13 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/gvJEq4Mt9HY)]]



Dear Dr. Rajaram and other scholars,



The entire scientific world credited Sir Isaac Newton for his Laws of Motion, including the measurements of rate of acceleration due to gravity; and not this illiterate child. And Kepler is credited with the discovery ot laws of our solar system, such that he deduced that the distances of different planets follow a specific formula; as per which the world could discover the asteroids in place of the anticipated missing planet in the solar system. This is what the Indian Text books prepared, no doubt, during the British Regime (may be christian) and prescribed in Indian schools preached.



any way it is not this 'scientifically and historically illiterate' Krishna Murthy ' who attributed 1. the growth of a desert in the course of its bed; and 2. an imaginary 300-year drought; to the drying of the mighty River Saraswathi. It is a great Historian called Dr.N.S.Rajaram: who has no explanation as tohow a desert in the course can dry up a Mightyriver; or how the other relatively minor rivers Sindhu, Yamuna and Ganga, etc, in the same belt did not dry up in spite of the same drought.



I shall be glad if the profound scholar is willing to have a public debate with this illiterate fellow in the presence of august scholars on the issues raised. As an illiterateI do not have any following as the great Dr. Rajaram does. So he need not hesitate. This debate shall have nothing to do with personalities with the propagation of truth, absolute truth and nothing but truth.



s.r.krishna murthy,

scientifically andhistoricallyilliterate fellow.



