+++
title = "002 rniyengar"

+++
[[rniyengar	2011-12-26, 21:15:36 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/-l5ihAJqvhk)]]



Dear Dr.Joshi, Your discussions are welcome. Sannihiti is a lake in  
Kurukshetra. For location please Google the word. In MBh the lake is  
described in the AraNyaparvan Ch 81 (BORI)  
  
yatra BrahmAdayo devA r.s.ayas'ca tapodhanAh./ mAsi mAsi samAyAnti  
pun.yena mahatAnvitAh.\|\| sannihityAm upas'pr.s'ya RAhu-graste  
divAkare/ As'vamedha-s'atam tena [is.t.am](http://is.t.am) bhavati s'As'vatam\|\|  
  
Variant verses from other editions are equally interesting:  
  
UdapAnAni vApyas'ca tiirthaany aayatanaani ca/ nihsams'ayam  
amaavaasyaam sames.yanti naraadhipa// Maasi-maasi nara-vyaaghra  
sannihatyaam na sams'ayah./ tiirtha-samnihanaad eva sannihatyeti  
vis'rutaa// (Gita press edn. Ch 83)  
  
I take place names such as Kurukshetra, Kapisthala,.. gaandhaara,  
sindhu, kuru, Paancaala, Saalva,..sarasvati, prabhaasa, pindaraka,  
Arbuda, Himavaan,..... appearing in MBh to be same or very nearly same  
as places with the same traditional names in Bhaarata (that is greater  
India) except when the text is self contradictary. This is the default  
option to study MBh. This leads to discard the identification of  
present day Dvaraka with the original city of the same name of MBh,  
Harivamsha and the PuraNas. The present day Somanatha was also not the  
ancient Prabhaasa-tiirtha of MBh. Some place names outside greater  
India also appear in the later layers of MBh. But this does not shift  
the centroid away from the Indo-gangetic plains as far as the main  
story line goes. However if there are overwhelming arguments from your  
side to demonstrate that Krishna and connected legends have been  
brought into India from outside the ancient geographical boundaries,  
please present a full length article. I like to first assimilate your  
arguments, before further discussions. About the date: The 1543-1443  
period is compatible with almost all astronomical statements appearing  
in the texts. Since Dr.Rajaram has also raised this question I will  
write again in some more detail.  
  
best regards  
  
RN Iyengar  

î—“

\> Local Woman Reveals Wrinkle Secret That Has Doctors Angry.<http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3141/4ef540ae4e5d1494e7bst02vuc>

