+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-11-23, 08:43:44 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/kfJPHI5vrqI)]]



TAASA (The Asian Arts Society of Australia) Asian Arts Essay Prize inconjunction with the 20th Anniversary of TAASA  
\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*  
-----------------------------------------------------------------------  
From: Ann Proctor \<[apro...@bigpond.net.au]()\>  
  
TAASA Asian Arts Essay Prize  
  
The Asian Arts Society of Australia (TAASA) celebrates its 20th  
anniversary in 2011. To affirm TAASAs ongoing role in supporting the  
study and appreciation of Asian Arts in Australia, the Committee of  
Management is offering a prize for the winning essay on an Asian arts  
topic. The prize is worth $2000.00  
  
The subject should encompass any aspect of the arts of Asia in any mediumincluding the visual arts - ancient to contemporary, architecture, performance, film and music.  
  
The entrant must be an undergraduate, honours or masters candidate currently studying at an Australian University. The age limit is 35 years. The essay should be no more than 3000 words and written in a style consistent with an accepted academic standard with regard to footnotes and use of images.  
  
An expert panel of judges will assess the entries and decide the winner.  
  
In addition TAASA publishes the TAASA Review, a quarterly peer-reviewed journal. The Editor of the TAASA Review will be informed of the prize-winning entry and it will be published in the TAASA Review.  
  
If required permission to publish any images to be obtained by entrant.  
  
Final submission date: 30 June 2011  
Award announcement date: 31 October2011  
  
Essays together with accompanying Entrant Details cover sheet to be emailed to:  
[taasapr...@gmail.com]()  
  
All enquiries to Dr Ann Proctor at:[apro...@bigpond.net.au]()  
  
TAASA (The Asian Arts Society of Australia) was founded in 1991 by a  
group of Sydney-based Asian art specialists scholars, curators, and dealers.  
  
It was instituted as a not-for-profit society to promote all aspects of the study and appreciation of the arts of Asia with a broad definition of Asia ranging geographically from the Middle East to Japan. The scope covers architecture, archaeology, visual art, sculpture, performance, film, photography, music and musical instruments. As a national society TAASA members are drawn from across Australia and abroad.  
  
Our main publication is the TAASA Review which is mailed to all members.  
This is a quarterly, peer-reviewed journal, 28 pages illustrated in full colour, with a diverse range of invited and submitted specialist articles on traditional and contemporary Asian arts and culture. The editions may have a specific focus subject or be one of general content. It also features a calendar of Asia-related events in Australia and abroad in each edition.  
  
Publically accessible copies of the TAASA Review are held in the NationalLibrary of Australia, the State Library of NSW and in a number of artgallery libraries. Back issues of the TAASA Review dating from 1995 areavailable for purchase.  
  
TAASA organizes symposia through the year on topical subjects often inconjunction with related exhibitions. Venues have included the Art Galleryof NSW, the Powerhouse Museum, the National Gallery of Victoria, and theAustralian Centre for Asian and Pacific Art at the Queensland Gallery ofArt. Topics in recent years have included: Cities of the Silk Road,Jewellery and Adornment of Asia, Beijing: Xanadu Past, Present andFuture, The Lands below the Winds; Shanghai Old and New, and Angkor: Artefacts to Empire.  
  
One-off lectures from overseas experts are arranged. Visits to private  
collections and viewings at major Galleries are arranged. Launches of  
members publications are also celebrated.  
  
TAASA's web page[http://www.taasa.org](http://www.taasa.org/)offers information on all TAASAactivities. It is currently in the process of a major overhaul and upgrade to provide up-to-the minute facilities for online bookings, payment ofmembership subscriptions; and it includes an index of the articles of allprevious TAASA Reviews.  
  
TAASA's email address:[ad...@taasa.org.au]()  
Postal address: TAASA, PO Box 996, Potts Point, NSW 2011.  
------------------------------------------------------------------------  
TAASA 20th Anniversary Essay Prize, 2011  
Entrant Details  
Please email your Essay together with this Entrant Details cover sheet to:  
[taasapr...@gmail.com]()  
  
Name:  
Postal address:  
Telephone:  
Email:  
Date of Birth:  
Title of Essay:  
Name of University:  
Course enrolled in:  
I declare this to be my original work  
Signature:  
Date:

