+++
title = "002 Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)	2014-05-26, 10:51:39 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/BBXhZ40zDXE)]]



Namaste



Article seems to me a Simple stack of confusion !



Please Read through the introduction paragraph to get the approach of the author. The point that made sense is : \< .. The big war between science and Dharma is still going on. Both have taken their own stands. Science has an edge over Dharma due to its role in technological growth and research based findings. It has improved the standard of life as well as the expectancy of life itself. On the other hand the age-old cultural beliefs could not be proved on scientific parameters. Dharma has no such apparatuses as we have in science laboratories. But the war is still on and no one has surrendered to the other. It is high time that someone came forward and explained those scriptures in the language of science. A lot of such work is being done in different countries.>



Continuing the reading, I picked the following statements, which made no further sense to me. I do understand the source books from where the thought is derived ; but what defies my understanding is the language -concepts-mapping of Tradition and Science ! Read the seven statements below and figure out for yourself the challenge :



1 \< In the language of physics, each form of matter has a centre, diameter and periphery. In vedic language these are called Rik, Yaju and Saam respectively. \>



2. \< All these five Pranas are endowed with the basic elements to create the five levels of this universe – Swayambhu, Parmesthi, Surya, Chandrama and Prithvi–the earth. \>



3. \< The matter is known as Brahm. Avyaya Purush is called Parabrahm and Akshar Purush is Parambrahm where as Kshar Purush is known as Prakritibrahm. Brahma prana is the core or centre and sustains each formation

through Vishnu prana. These two together create Vaak or matter \>



4. \< All our senses are created by the portions of Dev (Agni) Prana– the subjects of these senses also develop along with these senses i.e, speech, touch, form or light, taste and smell with ears, skin, eyes, tongue and nose. \>



5. \< The matter (Brahm), because of ego, becomes the first form of Pran-(Brahma) alongwith Manah-Pran-Vaak \>



6. \< Maya actually seperates the part of free matter or Brahm and turns it into a form. \>



7. \< Indian alphabets (Sanskrit) are also called Akshar. Like the five characteristics of Askhar Purush, the language is also created by the five vowels a, i, u, ri, lri. Each letter of the alphabet also represents one Akshar Pran or

one god.

You can reach the details of the universe by knowing the details of the alphabet eg. – the letter a (a) represents Manah, u (oo) represents Pran, (m) represents Vaak. The word for desire is Kaam i.e. k+a+m+a.

(k) means food, happiness, when Manah is involved with the food, the desire becomes Kaam. \>





8. Surely the war between language of science and spiritual traditions is on, where both sides are kicking the ball towards the same goal post ! There is no umpire to monitor the game !





Regards

BVK Sastry



------------------------------------------------------------------------

No virus found in this message.  
Checked by AVG - [www.avg.com](http://www.avg.com)  
Version: 2014.0.4592 / Virus Database: 3950/7556 - Release Date: 05/24/14

