+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-10-10, 18:53:51 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/H28edHLigeQ)]]



> 
> > Full text of over 8000 pages of Ayodhya verdict: >
> *  
> * >
> *<https://www.yousendit.com/download/WTNLRGx4ZEs3N0R2Wmc9PQ>(84mb)* >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > <https://www.yousendit.com/download/WTNLRGw2eFhWRC92Wmc9PQ>(47mb) >
> 

  

**The historical narraive of Ayodhya verdict continues from the sublime to the secular to pin down the ownership issue of 'nazrul' land, the 'disputed' site of Ayodhya:**

**  
**

**4306…***The Barhaspatyasutra (edited byDr. F.W. Thomas) mentions eight great tirthas each ofVisnu, Siva and Sakti, that yield all siddhis.” (pages 677-678).*

****

**4307**. The above book at page 736 under the heading “Listof tirthas” says:

*“Ayodhya--(in Fyzabad District in U.P.) on theGhagra. One of the seven holy cities (vide p. 678n above).It is also a place of pilgrimage of Jains, as some of their*

*saints were born there. Atharva-veda X. 2. 31 and Tai, A.*



*27. 2 (astacakra navadvara devanam pur-Ayodhya) tasyamhiranyayah kosah svargo loko Jyotisavrtah II), V. 60. 24-25and 70. 2 (capital of king Rtuparna and of Rama), Br. IV.*

*40. 91. Ag. 109. 24 (Ayodya papanasan). According toRam, I. 5. 5-7 the country of Kosala had Sarayu flowingthrough it; Ayodhya, 12 yojanas long and three broad, waskosala capital founded by Manu. Kosala was one of the 16mahajanapadas of India in ancient times (vide AnguttaraNikaya, vol. IV. p. 252). Later on, Kosala was divided intotwo, viz. Uttara Kosala and Daksina Kosala divided by theSarju or Ghagra river. The Raghuvamsa holds Ayodhya to*

*be capital of Uttarakosala (VI. 71 and IX. 1). Vide also Va.88. 20 ff. For a long line of kings of Ayodhya from Iksvakuand P. VI. 208. 46-47 (for Daksina Kosala and UttaraKosala). Saketa is generally identified with Ayodhya. VideT.P. p. 496 (gives its boundaries from SK) and underSaketa. Dr. B.C. Law contributes a well documented andlearned paper on 'Ayodhya' to J. of the Ganganath Jha R.Society, vol. I, pp. 423-443.”*

**4308**. Sri Mishra submits that Ayodhya and its relationwith Lord Rama as his place of birth is well recognised andmentioned in ancient Hindu Literature. The existence of “Vedi”

at the disputed place is mentioned by Father JosephTieffenthaler in his work, translated in French titled as

**“Description Historique Et Geographique Del'inde” firstpublished in 1787 by Jean Bernoulli**.



4381… Whether it is 3000 year old or 5000 year old or morethan a few lacs year old may not be of much consequence for us.Today, Christianity is more than 2000 and Islam 143 years old.We should not be understood saying that before Islam aspropounded by Prophet Muhammad or Christianity as per theteaching of the Jesus Christ, there was no religion whatsoever,but this is what normally or commonly understand. Thereligious scriptures and literatures of the religions therefore,though in abundance conform to the point of view, requirementand necessities of the corresponding period. Because of its owncertain antiquity amongst Hindu scriptures, we find sometimes,mention of such things which become difficult to digest on ourconceivable notion and logic and the limitation of ourunderstanding which we have in the light of the informationavailable to us currently.

**4382.** May be on account of non availability of the reliablefeed back some of the aspects of Hindu scriptures are termed byothers as Myth, legend, epic etc., doubting its historicity,ignoring the fact that the common people are so deep embeddedin blood that it is beyond imagination for them to even think of asituation where those faith and belief can be termed as a merefiction and not a matter of historicity. For example, the two ofthe world's biggest works known as 'Ramayana' and'Mahabharatha' of Hindu scriptures, other people started to callit 'Epic' and that we have followed since the days of BritishIndia and now also. Initially the European writers in their ownunderstanding find it unthinkable even the existence of such anantique society and culture and that too so perfect and so welldefined, sophisticated, but complicated in different facets. Withthe passage of time the thoughts and approach have undergone asea of change and now we find quite a sectionable intelligentsia

who is changing its views and that is not merely on some kindof altered hypothesis etc., but due to the cemented, reliableinformation, they have collected in the mean time. In brief, it

can be said that merely because I am not able to trace my historyof succession it will not mean that I do not have a chain ofsuccession. One's inability in finding something cannot result ina conclusion that actually nothing existed. There has to be muchmore. The mathematical, astronomical calculation of the learned people in ancient India have been found to be reasonably correctthough they are presumed to lack so called advanced technologyfor arriving at such conclusions. It is easy to discard somethingat the threshold but difficult to find reason and logic behind itsexistence. Difficulty cannot be a reason to opt for an easiermethod instead of the cumbersome one. If Indian culture andsociety could have survived for such a long time even thoughother ancient cultures, whether Egyptian, Greek or Roman havelost behind the time, then one has to find out the reason for itssustenance. It cannot be brushed aside loosely. This is a kind ofapproach, thoughts, faith and belief of one part of the litigantsbefore us and their contemporary opponent wants in existence of

positive material irrespective of the time and antiquity matterrelates to. The reason being that the issue has been brought in aCourt of law which is presently governed by the system we haveinherited from a totally different culture i.e. British legacywhere they have told us to decide the dispute only on gettingevidence and not otherwise. The issues relating to faith andbelief and that too, which had continued from generations togenerations, from hundreds and thousands years neither dependon the so called existence of evidence nor one can shake suchcustom which they have received by tradition for want ofevidence. It is not totally a different concept and notion,independent in its own ways. In the erstwhile territory of India,before entry of the far east people or from other parts of world itappears that natives had their own traditions, system, faith andbelief, and the society had different kinds of religious concept.The subsequent scholars tried to bifurcate this religious system

of ancient India into that of Aryan and Dravidian but what wefind is that barring a few differences in the matter of system ofworship etc., the core belief and faith remained same. The entiresociety remained connected with a common thread of religiousfaith. This difference, more or less, was political. It is in thissystem, where we find the people in ancient India believed inthe Avtaars of God which found mention in Vedic texts. All

these Avtaars in one or the other way we find had a specificobjective and ultimately helped to save the world, human beingand other creatures and also to guide the living being in lives,

some are to attract the people back to the spiritual domain.

**  
**

**4383**. On the one hand when modern day's science believein the system of universe controlled by various principle ofenergy, then Indian Society was glued with a common platformby the learned sages and others telling that the Supreme Lordmaintains all the planets and universe. It is He who assume rolesand incarnation to perform pastimes to reclaim those in themode of goodness. They were led to believe that throughout the

many millions of Universe in which the Supreme Being appears,the objective is to apprise Society and bring it to senses, inparticular, one who are in the higher grades of consciousness,receptive to understand their spiritual relation with him. He alsosends his pure representatives and instruction to guide people.The object is common i.e. to bind the living beings back towardsthe spiritual world. It is also said that source of various Avtaars

within this cosmic creation is the Lord of the Universe i.e.Garbhodakashayi Vishnu (see Srimad Bhagwatam 1.3.5). Theform of the Lord, that descends to the material world to create,is called Avtaar.

**4384**. We are not going into that various Avtars of LordVishnu according to the Hindu tradition and in details thereof.Since Ayodhya is known by the name of Lord Rama and,

therefore, one can presume that the religious structures musthave connection with Lord Rama in one or the other way. Thestone inscription found in 1992, as we have already discussed, atleast show this much that a temple of Vishnu Hari wasconstructed by the erstwhile Gahadwal King in 11th or 12thcentury, i.e., much before the visit of Babar near Ayodhya. In noother record, reference of Vishnu Hari Mandir at Ayodhya hasbeen pointed out, meaning thereby, before the history ofHinduism started in writing in a proper way, that temple musthave disappeared for one or the other reason. At Ayodhya, thepeople used to visit for Darshan of Lord Rama's places is alsoevident from the record of Sikh religion showing that GuruNanak Dev Ji came to Ayodhya in 1510 or 1511, told hiscompanion that it is the birthplace of Lord Rama and then wentfor Darshan. Even for a moment we are not drawing anyinference that the Sikhs religious texts anywhere identify theplace of birth of Lord Rama but this is sufficient to point outthat even before the entry of Babar in the then Hindustan,

Ayodhya was already a well established Hindu Tirtha for thefollowers and believers of Lord Rama. The custom of worshipof Lord Rama has already begun long back.

… **4390**. In the middle of 19th century, i.e., as we have alreadyobserved, between the 1853 to 1855 there appears to be a majorconfrontation between Hindu and Muslims at Ayodhya resultingin hundreds of deaths. Some says that 75 muslims were slainedwhile others say that the actual figure was about 200 Hindus and75 Muslims. Be that as it may, that is not very relevant for thepoint in issue. We are concerned as to what impel the twocommunities to fought so frightfully that resulted in such a largenumber of casualties, if the disputed place was an ordinary placeof worship of muslims having no other history or antiquity

attached with it. The conduct, the attitude, the insistence on thepart of Hindus, continuously, atleast as is evident from therecord, i.e., from the time of Tieffenthaler and onwards, showthat it was for something really serious on account whereof

Hindus were not able to give up their claim. Probably for thisreason, despite all odds, they continued to pursue their claim atthe place in dispute. (Vol.20.pdf)

… **4428.** It is not disputed by the parties before this Court thatthe Nazul plot, in which the building in dispute existed, wasrecorded as Nazul, plot no. 583, Khasra of 1931 of Mohalla Kot

Ram Chandra known as Ramkot, City Ayodhya (Nazul EstateAyodhya). In the revenue records, plot number is different. TheNazul number of the plot in which the building in dispute situateis not disputed. It is also admitted by all the parties that the plotin which disputed building existed was recorded Nazul in theFirst Settlement 1861 and had continued so even when the suitin question was filed.

**4429.** "Nazul land" means land owned by the Government.It is the own pleading of Sunni Board in para 24(B) of thewritten statement filed in Suit-5.

**  
**

**4430**. In the Legal Glossary 1992, fifth edition, publishedby the Legal Department of the Government of India at page589, the meaning of the word "Nazul" has been given as

"Rajbhoomi i.e. Government land". It is an Arabic word and itrefers to a land annexed to Crown. During the British Regime,immoveable property of individuals, Zamindars, Nawabs and

Rajas when confiscated for one or the other reason, it wastermed as "Nazul property". The reason being that neither it wasacquired nor purchased after making payment. In the old record,we are told when they used to be written in Urdu, this kind ofland was shown as "Jaidad Munzabta".

**4431**. For dealing with such property under the authorityof the Lt. Governor of North Western provinces, two orderswere issued in October, 1846 and October, 1848 wherein after

the words "Nazul property" its english meaning was given as"Escheats to the Government". Sadar Board of Revenue on 20thMay, 1845 issued a circular order in reference to Nazul land andin para 2 thereof it mentioned "*The Government is the proprietorof those land and no valid title to them can be derived but fromthe Government.*" The Nazul land was also termed as confiscatedestate. Under circular dated 13th July, 1859, issued by theGovernment of North Western Provinces, every Commissionerwas obliged to keep a final confiscation statement of eachdistrict and lay it before the Government for orders. Thekingdom of Oudh was annexed by East India Company in 1856.It declared the entire land as vested in the Government andthereafter settled the land to various individuals Zamindars,Nawabs etc.

**4432**. At Lucknow revolt against the British Companybroke up in May, 1857 which is known as the first war ofindependence which very quickly angle a substantial part ofnorth western provinces. After failure of the above revolution,the then Governor General Lord Canning on 15th May, 1858issued a proclamation confiscating propriety rights in the soilwith the exception of five or six persons who had given supportand assistance to British Officers. This land was resettled firstfor a period of three years and then permanent propriety rightswere given to certain Talukdars and Zamindars by grant of'Sanad' under Crown Grants Act. In the meantime we all knowthat under the Government of India Act, 1858 the entire Indian

territory under the control of East India Company was placedunder Crown w.e.f. First November, 1858.

… **4457.** This issue pertains to the identification of theproperty in dispute as described in the plaint. Counsel fordefendants No.4 and 5 submitted that the suit as framed showthe property in respect whereto relief was sought as mentionedin the annexures no.1, 2 and 3 to the plaint and do not specify ofthe boundaries of the property in respect whereto Suit-5 was

filed. However, so far as the disputed site and structure isconcerned, there is no dispute between the parties in respectthereto either about its identification or description. After the

decision of the Apex Court in **Dr. M. Ismail Farooqui's case(supra)** holding acquisition of property by the CentralGovernment under Act, 1993, except the site in dispute, valid,

the only area which is now required to dealt with by us in allthese cases is that which comprises of the of outer and innercourtyard including disputed structure.

**4458**. In the peculiar facts and circumstances of the casesince the property in dispute against which now the Court isrequired to consider whether the plaintiffs are entitled for reliefor not is well identified and known to all the parties, there is noambiguity. **Issue No.5 is answered in affirmative i.e. in favourof the plaintiffs.** (Vol. 21.pdf)

  

Note: This is why I call this is an extraordinary landmark judgement. It spans mahaakaala from the sublime Rigvedic dharma times of 'commonwealth' to the mundane issues of 'title' in nyaaya based on 'private property' concepts.अहम् दधामि द्रविणं of Rashtri sukta of Rigveda where Vaakdevi claims: aham rashtrii samgamanii...

  

An 8000 page document worthy of careful study in every historical enterprise or research of the narrative of a civilization that spans millennia.

  

dhanyavaadah.

  

kalyanaraman

