+++
title = "002 R. Narayana iyengar"

+++
[[R. Narayana iyengar	2013-01-05, 20:21:57 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/-eOLlmpCONQ)]]



Dr.Joshi,

Some time in 2011 (I guess) you had asked me why I do not agree with 3067 BC etc for the astronomical statements in MB. I hope from my feedback on Prof. BN Achar's work in the 'Origin' book you would have given an idea of my approach to the problem.

  

My primary interest has been to trace the roots of Hindu astronomy i.e pre-siddhantic astronomy. Thus I look into all kinds of available texts with contents belonging to BCE. MB is one such. H. Ray and several others e.g. Pargiter, SB Roy, DC Sircar, PL Bhargava have attempted dating of kings and people based on genealogy which is OK but not rigorous enough for my purpose. By and large historians argue that the core of MB should be dated to the middle of 2nd mill.BCE. Puranas and the historical info about Nava-Nanda support this. Archaeologists are not against the above dating. But you know well the arguments about Sandrocottus, Kaliyuga of 3102, Aryabhata's birth year, Aihole inscription etc. It is a maze! Hence I am sticking to a presumably easier problem of celestial observations which can be understood with my (limited) knowledge of Sanskrit and scientific methods, that can also be verified by others. Fortunately our ancient texts, Vedic and Puranic, abound in sky pictures which can keep oneperenniallyoccupied. Coming back to MB my curiosity is to see whether the various astronomical statements are consistent among themselves or not. If they are, then they should have been observed by some people living near about KK. Even in this seemingly simple approach one faces ambiguous text versions, contradictions etc.

  

For example (referring to the post of Sri Sankar in this thread) taking only one statement of 13-day/month double eclipse which is any way not attested in the same way in all versions is unreliable for drawing strong conclusions. There is no supporting evidence from the Mausala-parvan where it is said chaturdashi was made into pancadashi again (like during the war). Hence searching for an eclipse pair at 13-day interval can not be conclusive.

  

However the usage of the phrase 'ekamaase trayodas'iim' in Bhi.Parvan is interesting for its आर्षप्रयोग.In the शतपथ ब्राह्मण while describing Manu's Flood (1.8.1-5)we meet with the word समां ,which looks like Dvitiiya vibhakti. But the commentary makes this word clear as

समायामितयर्थ:. Perhaps following such a tradition, Utpala in his commentary of Brhatsamhita, refers to the MB eclipse statement as referring to

"ekamaase trayodashe - adhikamaase" that is the 'thirteenth month' and
'not on a trayodashi day'. Hence modern scholars taking the word त्रयोदशीं to mean त्रयोदश्यां is less probable.

  

Incidentally MB is the first text to propose a physical reason for eclipses giving the dimensions of sun, moon and Rahu the Mahaagrah.

Thanks

  

RN Iyengar



