+++
title = "000 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2013-12-23, 02:26:58 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/h_Z73xw0P_8)]]



Dec 22, 2013  
  
The name of Ushana kavi also appears in the ancient Persian history. There is whole Kavi family (Ushana, Kabod, Khusro) in the Iran's history. Kavis and Maagis (Maghavan, Maghava) belonged to the ancient Iranian priest class. From Maagis (their power of mantras) we have in English word Magic. Prophet Zoroaster was hotaar. Thanks. N.R.Joshi.  
  
  
------------------------  
  
  
  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: Nivedita Rout \<[niv...@yahoo.co.in]()\>  
To: "[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()" \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Vibhutiyoga of the Gita - Puranic Sources  
Date: Sun, 22 Dec 2013 18:42:15 +0800 (SGT)  
  
  
The Asvatha concept is occurred in Kathopanisad, 2.3.1.The earliest reference of Ushana is in Rg Veda, 8.84The finest explanation of Vibhutiyoga is given by Sri Aourobindo in his Essays of the Gita: SABCL, pp. 334 -- 362. On Saturday, December 21, 2013 10:39 PM, shankara \<[shanka...@yahoo.com]()\> wrote:Namaste! I have been trying to locate puranic sources of Vibhutiyoga of the Gita for some time. I could find only the following articles on this subject till now. Puranic Sources of the Vibhutiyoga in the Gita - AP KarmarkarAn article in Hindi on 'Maharshinam Bhriguraham' by Ramsankar BhattacharyaAn article in Hindi on 'Why Valmiki is not named in Vibhutiyoga?' by Ramsankar Bhattacharya. Of these the first one is very brief and the others deal with the subject only partially. I request the learned members to let me know of any commentaries or any other articles on the Puranic sources of Vibhutiyoga in detail. For instance it is not known why Asvatha is considered most superior among all trees or Usana among kavis..I assume these details would have been provided by some commentator. regardsshankara-- निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)--- You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com.To]() post to this group, send email to bvpar...@googlegroups.com.Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat.For> more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/groups/opt_out>.  
--  
निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
---  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/groups/opt_out>.  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
Do THIS before eating carbs &#40;every time&#41;  
1 EASY tip to increase fat-burning, lower blood sugar & decrease fat storage  
<http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3141/52b752511fcde52505a84st02vuc>  

