+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-10-26, 21:19:06 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/vECg_K0BIB8)]]



Some glosses cognate with **graha** (Skt.)

கரா\[krā\] --கராம்,s.An alligator,முதலை. 2. A male alligator,
ஆண்முதலை.(p.)(Tamil.lex.Winslow) கராம்**karām**,*n*. prob.*grāha*. 1. A species of alligator; முதலைவகை. முதலையு மிடங்கருங் கராமும் (குறிஞ்சிப். 257). 2. Male alligator; ஆண் முதலை. (திவா.)

కారుమొసలిkārumosali a wild crocodile or alligator. ग्राह\[ grāha \]*m*S A shark; according to some the Gangetic alligator, according to others, the water-elephant (the hippopotamus). 2 Any large marine animal. (Marathi) crocodile (Kannada) jalagraha shark or crocodile (Kannada) graha crocodile (Skt.)**grāhá**(*grābhá*-- m. ʻ seizing ʼ RV.) ʻ seizing ʼ Yājñ., m. ʻ handle of sword ʼ lex. 2. ʻ rapacious animal living in the water ʼ Mn. \[√grah\] 1. Pa.*gāha*-- n. ʻ grip, eclipse ʼ; 2. Pk.*gāha*-- m. ʻ rapacious animal such as a crocodile ʼ, Kho.*grah*ʻ water animal which seizes a man in the river, the animal which swallows moon or sun when eclipsed ʼ; Sh.*grã̄*m. ʻ**crocodile**ʼ, K.*grāh*m., H.*gāh*m. (CDIAL 4382). **ghaṇṭika**m. ʻ**alligator**ʼ Bhpr. \[Cf. A.*ghãṭ*ʻ protuberance on the snout of an alligator ʼ s.v. \*ghaṇṭa-- \] S.*ghaṛyālu*m. ʻ long -- snouted porpoise ʼ; N.*ghaṛiyāl*ʻ crocodile ʼ; A. B.*ghãṛiyāl*ʻ alligator ʼ, Or.*ghaṛiāḷa*, H.*ghaṛyāl*,*ghariār*m. (CDIAL 4422).**mákara**1m. ʻ crocodile ʼ VS. Pa.*makara*-- m. ʻ sea -- monster ʼ; Pk. *magara*,*mayara* \<-> m. ʻ shark ʼ, Si.*muvarā*,*mōrā*, Md.*miyaru.*-- NIA. forms with --*g*-- (e.g. H. G. *magar*m. ʻ crocodile ʼ) or --*ṅg*\<-> (S.*maṅgar -- macho*m. ʻ whale ʼ,*maṅguro*m. ʻ a kind of sea fish ʼ → Bal.*māngar*ʻ crocodile ʼ) are loans from Pk. or Sk. or directly from non -- Aryan sources from which these came, e.g. Sant.*maṅgaṛ*ʻ crocodile ʼ. (CDIAL 9692). 

  

Is it possible to pin down the isoglosses and define the evolution of variants in almost all languages of Bharatam? I do not know if the Vajasneyi Samhita gloss **makara** is related to the dh*ātu: grah.* If it is, the prefix ma- meaning 'me' has to be explained:**ma**base of singular oblique cases of 1st person pronoun: acc.māˊm, inst.máyā, dat.máhyam, gen.máma, encl.mē. Pa.maṁ,mayā,mayhaṁ,mama (CDIAL 9691). Could it be that the prefix ma- was added in the spoken idiom, when the glyphic of a Gangetic ghariyal was used to connote the user of the glyphic on a seal:khār'smith' (Kashmiri)? Is it something like an emphatic **me, smith** :)--

  

khār 1खार् । लोहकारःm. (sg. abl. khāra 1खार; the pl. dat. of this word is khāran 1खारन्, which is to be distinguished from khāran 2, q.v., s.v.), a**blacksmith**, an iron worker (Kashmiri lex.)

  

kalyan

