+++
title = "006 VKG"

+++
[[VKG	2010-08-10, 06:56:01 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/SEnP0DA8MrU)]]



Sri Korada Sastry ji!

I have certain observations about your post:

These lines need more explanation.

Probably, we have little difficulty in reading Samskruta thru your  
English Transliteration. (Devanagari for Sanskrit is a better  
Alternative)>

---------  
1. You say Vidagdha is the Roodhi. Again you quote Sabara Bhashya, to  
say.  
--------------  
\> So here , following the \*Jaiminisutra - " avistastu vAkyArthah(lokavedayoh\*)  
\> 1-2-4-32 , and the \*SAbarabhAsya\* thereupon, i.e.\*ya eva laukikAh sabdAh ta  
\> eva vaidikAh , ta eva esAmarthAh\* ,  
------

  
the YougikArtha has to be taken .  

----------  
How is this explained??

----------------  
2.  
\> \*Digdha\* -- it means ' anuviddha' , ' anusyUta ' . Samdigdha - is a  
\> counter example . \*DhatUnAm anekArthatvAt\* (the meanings  
\> of roots available were appended by \*Bhimasena\* et al and \*not Panini\* ,  
\> they are just like a '\*diksUci\*, . \*'Anuviddhamiva jnAnam \*\*sarvam sabdena

--------

Your comments in the above matter do not seem to address the poit  
raised by me. We all know the fact \*DhatUnAm anekArthatvAt\*.

But that this means, digdha will become dagdha.?? Any sootra to  
convert dih to dah

(As long as we are discussing the Pratyaya Kta, the Prakuti Pratyaya  
Vibhaaga, the context does not matter, unless specified by Paanini  
Achaarya.)  
--  
And by the way the when you say, the Purodaada need not be baked in  
right proportions>\> Do you mean that>\> It can be excessively baked or  
unbaked, infering Arthavaada>\>\>

Here Arthavaada has to be attributed to the extent of Deity only; not  
on the practical aspects mentioned in the Sruti Vaakya. That sort of  
interpretation to SabaraSwamy/ Jaimineeya Sootram would do justice to  
the practical aspects of Purodaasa Karanam.

More thoughts are welcome. In light of your inter disciplenary wisdom,  
this explanation would be apt, I hope.

Regards  
Vamshi Krishna Ghanapaathi



\> ...  
\>  
\> read more »

