+++
title = "016 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2017-11-19, 01:02:00 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/cJpCxGeJFOc)]]



Namaste



On \< the bad phrase लौकिकं संस्कृतम्. I for one would like to rest my indulgence \>



Some observations to seriously contemplate.



***Base line*** : ‘Bhashaa’ is NOT a dialect of ‘Chandas’. There is no local flavor of ‘Sanskrit’ from Gujrath differing from the ‘Sanskrit of Kashmir or Kanyakaumari’. 



 The dialects from Sanskrit are called ‘ Prakrits’, Apabhramsha, Mleccha, Desi’. These have local flavors.
These are studied differently from the model of Samskrutham.



The expression लौकिकं संस्कृतम् means application of ‘Samskrutham for Worldly usage ; Aluakikam Samskrutham is application of Samskrutham for ‘Adhyaatma Brahma Darshana’.

The expression लौकिकं संस्कृतम् is NOT a bad phrase.



1) The two modes of संस्कृतम् are

 1.1: Chandas - The visioned ‘Vak’ , the ‘Vak-Darshana’, the Veda- Sukta. Path is ‘Yoga – Tapas’.

 IF one does not have the capability or intention to ‘See/ Vision the Speech’ (Vak-Darshana), let them not engage with the talk about the ‘ Veda’, Mantra.

 This is not a subject for ‘ intellectual cyber chit chat’.




 1.1.1. What is floating around as ‘Veda –Chandas’ for usage in Yajna (Karma)’ is the APPLICATION (Viniyoga) of the Sukta’ for a benefit. The entire discipline of Meemaamsaa explains this.



 1.1.2 . What is floating around as ‘Vedanta from ‘ Upanishads’ for Brahma- jijnyasa is the ANALYTICS’ ( Taatparya – Jnana Viniyoga) of Veda is for a benefit called ‘ Moksha, Satya darshana’.. 

 The entire discipline of Vedanta = Uttara Meemaamsaa addresses this.



 1.1.3. The Technical language used for ‘ Yajna Viniyoga guidance and Brahma Jijnyaasaa’ i.e. **Analysis and Application of Chandas is ‘Bhashaa’**-.

 This is Currently called as ‘ Paninian Sanskrit’. This is NOT a historical tribal dialect.

 It is a ‘ Yoga –prescription’ ( Vaak- Anushaashanam, Shabda- anushaasanam) to Make Responsible, Respectable, True and Total Communication of Thought as articulate Expression.





 1.2: Bhashaa – is not a dilution of ‘Chandas’. Bhashaa is Language rule guidance for Human conscious effort to articulate Truth, Totally = Satya Vak aakhyaana./ Vyaakhyaana. 

 Shikshaa –Vyakarana – Chandas- Nirukta are Total Combine of LANGUAGE REPERTOIRE TOOLS needed to work with SAMSKRUTHAM in a 360 degree perspective ( Called the ‘Poornam’ / Sampoornam :: Full and Complete model for Shabda- Roopa –Shuddhi /Siddhi).



 Paninian work provides this guidance clearly by blending the rules of ‘Chandas Application’ and ‘ Bhashaa Analytics’ in one unified document.



 1.3 . The inaccurate fragmented model of holding on to the study of Samskrutham in the exclusivity of ‘Bhashaa’ to understand ‘Chandas’ is like looking at the world with one eye and using a colored lens. The Totality (Samagrataa of Shadanga-Vedanga approach) and ‘ (Darshana approach needed for Veda’) - Both are given up.

 This wrong , inappropriate model has been embraced by many in the Sanskrit studies, globally, for the love of the authority from colonial masters.

 This is in simple straight words – is violation of the Guidance given by Panini-Patanjali to study Samskrutham as Vedanga.



 1.4. Coming to Vedantacharya- varya –Shishyas debating on which Acharya is a greater grammarian and superior visionary to explain ‘Vedaartha’, this debate is a total travesty of tradition.



 Using ‘ Shikshaa and Vyakarana’ to understand ‘Veda’ is limited to the function of ‘ right articulation ( phonemics) – ucchaarana and right vocabulary - roopasiddhi’.

 This is the limit of ‘ Pada Shaastra.



 Vedantacharyas transcend the limitation of ‘Pada-Shaastra’ and rise to ‘Vakya and Pramana Shaastra heights’ and then go beyond to the ‘Darshana’ .

 From this highest elevated point, they give the ‘ Mahaa –Vaakyartha’ of Veda mantra.



 When the fragmented split of words like ‘Tat- padam’ ( in another thread) pushes the grammar over the ‘ Mahaavaakyaartha’, and this is claimed as a ‘ new discovery, superior interpretation’ et al, it is like a person walking on hand fingers with feet in the sky and claiming that to be the true walking, resonating with functioning of the Universe.



 Acharays knew the potential possibilities of ‘ Word split by grammar’ but then they go beyond to the ‘ Mahaa-Vaakyaartha’ to over ride that limitation.



 In Alamkaara shaastra, this is called ‘ rasa-darshana’ over riding the ‘ pada-vakya doshas’. 



 1.5. For Samskrutham, Oral Tradition :Shikshaa is the Foundation . The shift from Oral tradition to use of scripted book where anglicized roma-naagari is used to teach Sanskrit has killed the essence of Samskrutham. This is gloriously proclaimed as the ‘ Classical Language Status of Sanskrit’ to get doles from Government, to weep over the R.I.P of Samskrutham!



1.6. Siddhatna Kaumudi tradition or Kaashikaa Tradition or Bhaaashya tradition of studying Samskrutham depended on ‘ Voice Training first’ and then rest of the grammar. These are alternative models to learn Ashtaadhyaayi ; these are not competing or conflicting models.



 The Colonial model shifted gears of this guru-kul study model to the ‘Montessori study model of learning a dialect from a spoken language environment’.



 The price paid : The global English spread has neither generated a ‘ next Shakespeare’ ( Literary language level expressionist of human emotions) or Skilled translators to English.



 There is no doubt a social proliferation and popularity of English ; but the technical strength of language has not been supported.

 Even today, ‘to learn English needed for business use’ one has to
learn by a certification process and incur costs ! English, though free, is not free !



Regards

BVK Sastry



--  

You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  

To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().



