+++
title = "003 Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma"

+++
[[Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma	2010-06-29, 11:33:51 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/9a1BCmI5yqQ)]]



हरि: ॐ  
नमस्ते।  
Sri LalitAsahasranAma, Soundarya Lahari, Subhagodaya, Agni PuraaNa and many other texts provide ample material  
on the Cahkras. All these texts have common six+one enlisted chakras. Shat-**Adharas** (as they are called in the Temple Vaastu Texts forming the adhara for the idol to be installed), have six chakras. The seventh one is not called adhara because upon it there are no **chakras** *upon it* as the basis within the microcosm. These chakras are called so because they are always found to be whirling/vortice of colorful energy patterns by an upasaka. They are called **Padma/Ambuja** because they have folding and unfolding behaviour due to imbalances in the energy levels.They are also called **Mandalas**(Agni Purana) because they appear as geometrical patterns.  
We are familiar with different Mandalas spread on the floor or wooden plank for the purposes  
of Puja. These are derived from the Mandalas seen within. The Five Great Elements have five geometrical  
forms as given in the Tantra Shastra. Their combination is supposed to created well defined modifications which conduce performance of certain karmas like those in Aabhichara(though not limited to).  
Indeed the websites are confusing and if paid for the packages offered they will confound more.  
प्रणाम:  
  
  

2010/6/28 hn bhat \<[hnbh...@gmail.com]()\>



  
  
  
--  
Aangirasa/Dr.S.Ramakrishna Sharma. M.A.,Ph.D.(Eng.Lit.),Ph.D.(Sanskrit.).  

