+++
title = "010 Dr. Raghavender Upadhyayula"

+++
[[Dr. Raghavender Upadhyayula	2019-09-10, 00:54:52 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/RIpxh7Mn8Mo)]]



Dear Vidvans,

  

I would like to share my thoughts. As I am working in the area of genomics, transcriptomics and metagenomics over the past few years. I haven't gone through the paper completely yet. But, these few lines are my thoughts.

The reference genome, if at all used, correspond to hg38 or later version to assemble the respective genomes. Point to be noted, reference in this case would be that of a non Asian. Please cross check for the nativity of human reference genome.

Second, when interpreting such time course genetic data which is geographically dispersed, we do not have a continuity of samples from uniformly or non-uniformly spaced time points. Hence, we end up analyzing or comparing evolutionary divergence of specific genes at two fixed end points. One to the present day and the other corresponding to the date of sample. The actual mutations in select genetic loci, earmarked as corresponding to specific groups, over this entire course of time is at best a statistical estimate. We do indeed miss the actual samples from different time points in specific geographic locations.

Environmental factors can play a very important role in modulating the genetics of an individual. Recent studies on the gut microbiome is a good case in point. Hence, the conditions in which these samples were collected could in principle have a say on the DNA.

To a skeptic, a question can arise as to why dig in only these places ? Why not try to find such a sample in Chennai or Vijayawada or Nasik or Mysuru ?

  

Hope, I have not digressed. Will post a more refined mail once I read the paper and assimilate the core points.

  
  





> To view this discussion on the web visit > [https://groups.google.com/d/msgid/bvparishat/630024733.4494907.1568048313229%40mail.yahoo.com](https://groups.google.com/d/msgid/bvparishat/630024733.4494907.1568048313229%40mail.yahoo.com?utm_medium=email&utm_source=footer).  

