+++
title = "000 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2016-04-01, 02:31:37 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/I9VfG3vtPg4)]]



March 31, 2016



I am sorry DR. Hari Bhat, I happened accidently. N.R.Joshi  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: "Hnbhat B.R." \<[hnbh...@gmail.com]()\>  
To: [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Brihad devataa deities  
Date: Thu, 31 Mar 2016 07:39:17 +0530  
  

Why this mail is forwarded by NR Joshi? I had already read the message sent to bvp.

On 31-Mar-2016 2:39 am, "N.R.Joshi" \<[gira...@juno.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> >   
>   
> ---------- Original Message ----------  
> From: Vidyasankar Sundaresan \<[svidya...@gmail.com]()\>  
> To: भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत् \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
> Subject: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Brihaddevataa deities  
> Date: Tue, 22 Mar 2016 17:17:13 -0700 (PDT)  
>   
> Dear Sri Joshi,  
>   
> It's unclear to me whether your query/comment is about the > Brihaddevataa or about the Purva Mimamsa view of yajnaphala. In any > case, do consider that the Purva Mimamsa position is not the last word > within the Vedic tradition about the reality and role of the devatAs. > The yoga school has something to say independently about the > ishta-devata. There is also an entire adhikarana in the Brahmasutras > about the existence, function and eligibility of the these deities for > Brahman knowledge. Sankaracharya even quotes the yogasutra, svAdhyAyAd > ishTadevatA saMprayogaH in this context and holds that the > mantra-drashTAraH of the Veda had to have had a similar vyavahAra with > the devatAs of the Veda mantras. Other commentators like Ramanuja and > Madhva have their own interpretations to offer, which are not all that > different on this particular topic.  
>   
> What I wanted to say was that within the Indian traditions, it is not > as simple as some grahashAnti like ritual not having immediate effect > because of a presumed non existence or the stronger influence of > previous karman. The yoga and Vedanta schools of thought, which have > had a greater influence on popular religious beliefs and practices, > have other perspectives to offer than the strict Purva Mimamsa view.  
>   
> Best regards,  
> Vidyasankar  
>   
> --  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.  
>   
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
> [**Wall Street Daily**  
> Peter Schiff: China Just Armed its Financial Missile  
> ](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/56fc405f79a01405f7a8dst01vuc)<http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/56fc405f79a01405f7a8dst01vuc> >
> 
> > --  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>. >
> 



--  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**Wall Street Daily**  
Peter Schiff: China Just Armed its Financial Missile  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/56fd9008d8d2c10084748st02vuc)<http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/56fd9008d8d2c10084748st02vuc>

