+++
title = "012 Dr. T. Ganesan"

+++
[[Dr. T. Ganesan	2013-10-17, 15:22:31 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/wS1CWx--0bY)]]



Ku.n.dalinii in the Saivasiddhanta system is of different connotation.  
It is the pure material power of Siva through which he creates the pure worlds (which are those attained and lived by pure beings such as Isvara, Suddhavidya, etc.);  
This is the passage from the Pau.skaraagama of the Saivasiddhanta system:  
 

      सा च *कुण्डलिनी* शम्भोः शक्तिः

        शुद्धा जडात्मिका

  
In fact the Pau.skaraagama has a separate chapter on Ku.n.dlinii.  
  
Further, Ku.n.dalinii is the material cause of pure sound and the cause of Vaak, which evolves into Paraa, Pa"syantii, etc.  
The Ratnatraya\[pariik.saa\] of Srika.n.tha (circa 10th century)  

    शब्दतत्त्वमघोषा वाग् ब्रह्म *कुण्डलिनी* ध्रुवम् \|\|

    विद्या शक्तिः परा नादो महामायेति देशिकैः \|

  
  
uses Ku.n.dalinii as synonymous with supreme sound, unsounded speech (agho.saa vaak), Mahaamaayaa, etc. (Again, Maayaa and Mahaamaayaa are different in the Saivasiddhaanta)  
  
Thus Ku.n.dalinii is definitely an ancient concept widely used only in the Tantra-s and Agama-s. Its usage in Ha.thayoga and in the modern texts is a later development. Raising the Ku.n.dalinii from the Muulaadhaara and making it join in the Sahasraara, which point is very much discussed in the Ha.thayoga, is totally absent in the Saivasiddhanta (and also in the Pratyabhij\~naa system)  
  
What I want to stress is that it has got different connotations in different Tantric systems and that as many would think, it is not a pure Ha.thayoga concept though, in modern times, it has been made known through Ha.thayoga.  
  
  
Ganesan

  
  
  
On 17-10-2013 13:10, Hnbhat B.R. wrote:  

> 
> > 
> > This is the Vikipedia article refers to the first usage in > Sharadatilaka Tantra: >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Use kuṇḍalī as a name of Durga or of a Shakti appears as a technical > term in Tantrism and Shaktism as early as c. the 11th century, in the > Śaradatilaka.\[10\] It is adopted as kuṇḍalniī as a technical term > into Hatha yoga in the 15th century and becomes widely used in the > Yoga Upanishads by the 16th century. Eknath Easwaran has paraphrased > the term as "the coiled power," a force which ordinarily rests at the > base of the spine, described as being "coiled there like a > serpent".\[11\] The phrase serpent power was coined by John Woodroffe, > who published his translation of two 16th-century treatises on Laya > Yoga (Kundalini Yoga) in 1919 under this title. >
> 
> > 
> > André Padoux, Vāc: The Concept of the Word in Selected Hindu Tantras, > SUNY Press, 1990, 124-136.  
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 

  

``` -- 
```

