+++
title = "013 Dr. T. Ganesan"

+++
[[Dr. T. Ganesan	2013-10-17, 17:31:44 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/wS1CWx--0bY)]]



For arguing on the basis of history and for historicity, references to the practices of the Samkara Matha-s will not be of any value.  
  
The daily ritual of Sricakra puja as practised by Sringeri or Kamakoti Matha can not strictly be Vedantic and much less Advaitic of Samkara's school.  
Srividya texts such as the Nityaa.so.da'sikaar.nava, Yoginiih.rdaya and the Sricakra worship can be historically later than the 11- 12th century.  
These rituals of the Samkara Matha-s are definitely much later. For, only the japa of Pra.navamantra is prescribed for the Kaapilasa.mnyaasi to which type all the sa.mnyaasi-s of the Samkara Matha are said to belong.  
  
Sriividyaa is definitely a TANTRIC tradition in its origin not withstanding the arguments of the great Bhaskararaya with his efforts to make it a Vedic one.  
And, it is he who has commented on the Lalitaasahasranaamaastotra and we hear no commentary before him.  
Regarding Lalitaasahasranaamaa, as pointed out by Sri Sampatkumar, it does not at all seem to be very old; Its affinity to Samkara's Advaita system is evident from one of the names: मिथ्याजगदधिष्ठाना. In the Nityaa.so.da'sikaar.nava and other basic texts of the tradition the concept of 'jaganmithyaatva' so much stressed by Samkara and his followers, is absent.  
  
Ganesan

  
  
  
  
On 17-10-2013 11:48, V Subrahmanian wrote:  



