+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-10-14, 04:13:41 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/1CBxFKhqA0s)]]



130 distinguished historians do not read the judgement, but make diversionary appeals

  

Distinguished historians do not read the judgement but make appeals to divert attention from the Ayodhya judicial pronouncement.

  

When the whole judgement with all details of judicial evaluation of the evidence has been made public, what is this new appeal by 'eminent historians' or 'distinguished historians'?

  

It is clear that these historians have not read the judgement, nor have they read the following document which is part of the full text which runs to 8000 pages. They seem to be interested only in making polemical points and not concerned about integrity of historical narrative.

  

<http://rjbm.nic.in/dvs/Final_Judgements_&_Annexures_Per_Hon'ble_Mr._Justice_Dharam_Veer_Sharma_pdf_FILES_FOR_UPLOADING/Annexures_PDF/Annexure%20III.pdf>

  

This Annexure III is a complete evidentiary compendium of the Court detailing the pleadings of lawyers representing the defendants and plaintiffs and a detailed cross-examination of the 'experts' who contested the Archaeological Report. The 'experts' who are now complaining should note that this Report is a court document subjected to thorough judicial review. Why do the 'experts' now want only the ASI report to be published without the related Court proceedings which evaluated the Report and also evaluated the objections raised by 'experts'?

  

IT is unfortunate that 'experts' are making demands of the judicial system without first reading the judgement, the Annex III in particular which rips apart and rejects the bogus opinions of 'experts'.

  

Archaeological Survey of India Four Reports made during the year 1862-63-64-65 by Alexander Cunningham CSI (1879) is evaluated in Pages 43 to 65 of Annex IV.

  

8000 pages of the judgement are available for 'experts' to read and learn about history. Vidyaa vinaya sampannaa is the tradition of Hindusthan. Why is this vinayam absent from the pathetic plea of the 'experts' who are interfering with the judicial process?

  

The newspaper report in Mount Road The Hindu:

  

Published: October 14, 2010 01:54 IST \| Updated: October 14, 2010 02:03 IST

  

ASI report should be made public, says appeal to Chief Justice

  

Special Correspondent

  

The Allahabad High Court based a significant part of its judgment in the Ayodhya case on the evidence provided by the Archaeological Survey of India's report on its excavations at the site, submitted to the court in 2003.

  

However, that report is still hidden from the public eye, and a virtual gag order placed on archaeologists who acted as observers during the excavation.

  

Now that the judgment has been pronounced, a group of 130 academics, activists and intellectuals have demanded that the ASI report be published. In an open letter to the Chief Justice of India and the Chief Justice of the Allahabad High Court, they urged that the report “be made available for scrutiny in the public domain, especially to scholars, as it is now a part of the public judicial record.”

  

The ASI report, which concluded that a temple had existed at the site, has been criticised by many archaeologists for ignoring evidence such as animal bones, which would not have been found in a temple for Ram, and the existence of glazed pottery and graves at all levels which indicated Muslim residence.

  

In May, archaeologists Shereen Ratnagar and D. Mandal were slapped with contempt of court charges by the Allahabad High Court for sharing their observations in a book, titled “Ayodhya: Archaeology After Excavation”, published by Tulika in 2007. The orders in that case have been reserved.

  

The open letter notes that, “the world at large is equally constrained to silence. Such a judicially ordained zone of uncertainty curbs freedom of expression and fair comment.”

  

Signatories

  

The letter was signed by well-known Indian academics such as Sumit Sarkar, Uma Chakravarti, K.N. Pannikkar, K. Satchidanandan, Ajay Dandekar and filmmakers such as Anand Patwardhan, as well as less well-known Indian citizens – a software engineer, a textile design consultant, a teacher. Academics from abroad – including those from universities in London, Chicago, Stockholm and Copenhagen – have also signed the letter, as friends of India.

  

<http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/article828872.ece?homepage=true&css=print>

  

kalyan

  

