+++
title = "012 Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)	2015-06-05, 07:47:45 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/ERqMPEXg6pA)]]



Namaste



This debate is still going on in the very superficial and tangential line. If surrogacy /Sperm donation is a science- development about Dharma Shaastra is not aware/ comfortable, may be it needs to be debated as a specific topic. There is no point in trying to force-fit the modern issue in to a tradition. 



1. Surrogacy in the present context is primarily about the
‘Womb-renting’ / Child nurtured in other than ‘biological mother body’ / Outsourced pre-birth child development’/ Third party doing a part of what ‘ Pati-Patnee’ are supposed to be privy to .



It is more to do with current day technology of child nurturing in pre-birth period. The question is about the ethics of ‘renting the body ’ and how is it going to be different in any way from the ‘ using body as prime capital’ ( Ganikaa Vrutti) Or the ‘Daasa –Daasee system’ where the ‘ body is pledged for a cost measured as loan amount’ .



References in ancient documents to Ganikaa vrutti and Daasa-Daasya system are present ; and they are pretty ancient. They have not escaped the scope of writers of Dharma, Artha and Niti Shaastra. If one goes further deep, it would get in to the complications of ‘ Kula –Identity’, which is connected with the ‘gotra’ of the parents . And in modern society, the issues of ‘ samskaras for surrogate children/ from Dharma-Shaastra perspective’ can be very sensitive issue, challenging the very foundations of tradition. (A wise caution was issued way back : don’t seek the five ‘ sources ( Panca moolaani : Stree moola, nadi moola, rishi moola… ).



Some of the url’s that one may read in this regard are :

<http://www.ihr.com/infertility/provider/spermbank.html>
- The women have a choice of seeking a ‘sperm’ and not a ‘ life partner –husband tied through a marriage samskara’.

 <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sperm_donation>



2. The discussions in traditional texts, if my understanding is right, focuses on (a) niyoga ( which is more focus on women to become a mother and child bearer for family succession ) – where the women accepts the seed of a person other than married husband , in a natural union mode ( like Mahabharata story) (ii) Cases where father is not known ( like Satyakama story/ Ajnaata pitruka) for various reasons (iii) Cases where both Maataa and Pitaa are not known ( what is called as orphan child with unknown parentage) .



The illustrations of ‘womb transfer’ from one mother to another ‘ mother’ does not fit in this case; and on the same count, the ‘nurturing of a ‘ conceived life in the form of a ‘maamsa-pinda’ outside of human womb , as in the case of karuavas, Bharadwaja , Ourva ( who, in the pre-birth stage, is said to have been concealed in the thigh of the mother , moving the ‘ garbha’ from the garbha- kosha) , nurturing of Garuda in the form of a ‘egg’ outside of the womb of ‘ Aditi’ - do not fit in to the present context of discussion.



I would be open to listen to the views of scholars with a focus on the classical statement : ‘ Shareeramaadyam Khalu Dharma Saadhanam’. .



Regards

BVK Sastry 



------------------------------------------------------------------------

No virus found in this message.  
Checked by AVG - [www.avg.com](http://www.avg.com)  
Version: 2015.0.5961 / Virus Database: 4355/9945 - Release Date: 06/04/15

