+++
title = "002 rniyengar"

+++
[[rniyengar	2010-09-20, 13:31:57 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/CzUu5TBxyOg)]]



Dr.Joshi,  
I recollect having corresponded with you on the IC-Yahoo group. I  
would like to read your paper on SphoTa if you can send a soft copy or  
put it in the file section. Similarly your ppt on MB I like to see....  
The number of persons devotedly working in India on science or  
scientific content in Sanskrit literature (aka history of science) is  
a handful. This group is made of persons with varied backgrounds who  
spend time on their narrow interest and have little time to discuss  
with others. The challenges are too strong and I feel cannot be  
concluded by one or two persons. For example a titan like Kosambi  
notwithstanding his Marxist background has very cogently argued why  
Krishna should be accepted as historical. Pure Sanskritists and  
traditional Pandits do not understand scientific methods and run of  
the mill indologists in India have no idea of what archaeology as  
science is! \[Politicians meddle in the affairs further to suit their  
own vote banks. Leftists don’t want Kosambi to be quoted loudly about  
his support for searching Vedic links in Indus seals. Rightists want  
to see that MB is dated to 3102 BC or earlier.\] While individual  
research going to the depth of a question is very essential, some type  
of consolidation by a committed group of dispassionate non-partisan  
scholars is required. This is totally missing in India. TIFR and  
Bombay University organized brainstorming on archaeo-astronomy for two  
years 2008 and 2009. The exercise has now stopped due to some internal  
difficulties. This is one reason why many interesting thoughts and  
results go without proper criticism/appreciation/recognition.  
  
About your MB post regarding mention of Antioka and Roma in the Sabha  
parvan, my approach is to treat such chapters as later layers. I am  
convinced the above cities were not known to Indian authors before  
\~4th Cent BC. This by itself is no proof that MB is too late.  
Orthodox tradition accepts there are three layers in MB. The subject  
becomes too emotional for some group of people if the text is  
dissected, since Krishna as VishNu is mentioned in some of the Parvans  
which obviously could not have formed the deepest layers. Search for  
ancient history can not ignore compatibility with geography. However I  
have not looked at geography outside greater India in the context of  
MB. Within Indian boundary itself there are sufficient difficulties!  
The most important being the location of Dvaravati and the linking of  
Krishna’s city to Sarasvati, Prabhasa and the Rigvedic IriNa. Please  
see the following articles published in the Journal of Geological  
Society of India.  
  
[abob.libs.uga.edu/bobk/maha/dwaraka/](http://abob.libs.uga.edu/bobk/maha/dwaraka/)  
  
<http://eprints.iisc.ernet.in/15391/1/rni-bpr-iriNa.pdf>  
  
Thanks  
  
RN Iyengar  



