+++
title = "015 Arun"

+++
[[Arun	2010-09-29, 15:20:47 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/CzUu5TBxyOg)]]



Most systematic analysis of Puranic Geography is by S. Muzaffar Ali  
published in 1966 by Peoples Publishing house. I do not know how such  
an important book vanished from publication-probably publishers learnt  
that it is not in line with Marxism. In some details, I differ with  
Sri Ali, but his methods I follow entirely. I have added some  
informations from astronomy about which also he has written. I had a  
torn copy of that book which I have uploaded on scrib/Arunupadhyay. I  
am in search of his earlier book-Geography of Arab which will also  
give light on ancient places of that area. In India, that had been  
area of Varuna called Pashi or lord of Yadasa (Taj tribe). Region of  
Yama was west of Arab with capital at sanyamani piri. These names  
still exist-Yaman, Amman, Sana, Dead-sea etc. Teacher in India was  
Guru, Shukra (Kavi-Kaba) was of Asuras and Shani of Yama country. Old  
town of Varuna has been called Uru-that was the ancient town of Iraq.  
Shani was called Ninib in Hebrew-that was name of Assyrian capital  
Nineve which had launched attacks upto India in 800 BC. It was  
countered by Federation of Shudraka (his shaka in 756 BC)of 4 Agni  
kings-Paramar, Pratihar, Chalukya and chahman. Finally, it was  
destroyed in 612 BC as described in about 10 places in Bible. That was  
by Chahaman of Delhi called Medes of east of Indus. Harivamsha-purana  
has indicated a port west of Dwaraka named Vajra-nagara (Basra). Book  
by M. Ali will be of immense help if it is traced and reprinted-Arun  

î—“

\> \> $160,000 Mortgage for $547/mo. FREE. No Obligation. Get 4 Quotes!<http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3141/4c96b2515fc45d56314st01vuc-> Hide quoted text -  
\>  
\> - Show quoted text -

