+++
title = "016 Arun"

+++
[[Arun	2010-09-29, 15:38:57 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/CzUu5TBxyOg)]]



Naranga ji is mostly correct. Kalakeyas may be in Caucassus, Koti-  
Virya may be Arab (as a number in Hindi) and Mura of Morocco (Moors).  
But one example Kambu may be from Kambuja (Combodia). Asuras are  
mainly from west and western literature Old Testament desribes  
destruction of Assyria by eastern power. That destruction was one of  
the reasons why no body could check the advance of Alexander in 326  
BC. Durga-saptashati describes 3 incarnations of Kali in chapter 11.  
One is before Kali born from womb of Yashoda-that is Vindhyavasini.  
Next was Shakambhari which was in 100 years of draught. That shpuld be  
in period of drying of Saraswati and consequent over flooding of Ganga  
in which Hastinapur was destroyed-in time of Nichakshu- 8 generations  
after Yudhishthira. Chahmans rose in this time- and probably saved  
India from famine and western attacks. They had been called Chauhans  
of Shakambhari in their and related traditions. Destruction of Asuras  
of west has been described in Durga incarnation. Assyria has not only  
similarity of names with Asura, their kings also were titled Asura. It  
was honourable title-meaning powerful, Asu=Prana. Kings of Persia and  
Kanchi also had similar names-Pallava (Pahlava). This means Pahalwan  
(wrestler) in Hindi. Similarly Khalifa (Calif) of Turkey or Arab)  
means wrestler. There is 3rd incarnation of Bhramari-may be at time of  
locust attack as an Iraq website has opined on my comments -Arun  



\> 750 or Higher is a Great Credit Score! What's Yours? See Now for FREE!<http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3141/4c9e3dc26fb5ed71a37st03vuc>  

\>  
\> --  
\> अथ चेत्त्वमिमं धर्म्यं संग्रामं न करिष्यसि।  
\> ततः स्वधर्मं कीर्तिं च हित्वा पापमवाप्स्यसि।।  
\> तस्मादुत्तिष्ठ कौन्तेय युद्धाय कृतनिश्चयः।  

\> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)- Hide quoted text -  



