+++
title = "003 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-09-13, 12:50:17 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/-GCW7jOQi8o)]]



Namaste



*(This response is not a criticism. This is articulating my personal doubts and seeking calrifications from the Vidwat janas, pl. *).



1. On the observation \< Many of these forms will be considered **ārṣa in the traditional Sanskrit grammar**. \>



 Did not Acharya Madhwa address a similar issue by taking recourse to ‘Dhaatu Paatha – Vrutti’s? and Sayana Maadahvas works have some wrotongs on this issue, in connection with ‘ Veda –Bhaashya’ ?

 How Would Whitney get a higher priority and authority over native standing tradition ? 



 If Lexicon writers have erred ( which is other wise established, specially in the case of MW and his followers/ Apte ) why hesitateto call a spade a spade ?



 I may not know what is right; but I do sense when something is ‘not-right’.



2. On \< Whitney's description is not based on the prescriptive rules of Pāṇini, but on his observation of the occurrence of forms in Vedic, Epic and other Sanskrit literatures known to him \> :

 Whitney’s modeling of ‘ Language’ for ‘ Analytics’ is NOT the same as the one used by ‘ Paninian Tradition. 

 When one analyst (Whitney) uses a vertical split ( = Historical, Human Construction model of Vedas) and some other person ( Paninian Tradition) uses horizontal split ( Veda is Rushi Darshana- Apaurusheya) , the 

 potato’s ( = Academic research opinions) fall out in different
shapes and sizes in different lands and regions.



So how are we to go explore ‘Vedas ‘ for ‘ Vedaartha- Prakaashana (= Meaning on light of Vedas)’ , ‘ Veda- Anuvaada (= Veda Translation) , ‘ Veda- Vihita – KarmaanuShThana (= Practice of Vedic Ritual = Karma Kaanda and Vedanta = Brahma Kaanda as outcome of this)?



The question is straight and critical for defining ’ Brahamana Identity and Culture’ under which the ‘ Three Vedanta- Acharyas writings would fall in’.



Regards

BVK Sastry



