+++
title = "023 Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)	2016-03-02, 11:12:26 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/4fWAEj38Pzc)]]



Namaste Kalicharan Tuvi ji

Please permit me to make some specific observations, only to fine tuning to the good points brought up in your post below.

 Some technical and deep elaboration is needed, as the issues raised in these posts have deep down and distressing 'fissures and hemorrhages' located in the ' unarticulated assumed premise of current discourse. This pointer is primarily to address two issues of relevance Knowledge and Application of Word. The questions are : What is Samskrutham? How to understand Samskruth Word? For what purpose? Technically called ' Samskrutha (Veda) Shabda lakshana' and 'Samskrutha Viniyoga' (many times pointed in earlier debates by my friends - Dr. N R Joshi and Dr. Yadu Moharir). This incidentally touches upon the pious suggestion of Bijoy Mishra ji \<that Government should fund Shaastra -Research/Researchers\>. :

 Before going for heavy stuff, what is \< **Hanumāna****\> in the sentence \<** In this way, **Hanumāna** - for instance - belongs to the same consistency (ऋत) elaborated in the Vedic system, even though the proper name isn't mentioned there. This principle has been known and implemented by Indians for a long time (admittedly, during "ancient" enough epochs). This unity is even to this day being accessed, and kept alive, by Ascetics ("yeah, field work").\> Did you mean \< Anu-Maana> ? please clarify.

 This debate is important because , as you say \< India is a young nation today. But it has got a history, an ancient history, and a prehistory, too: any sweeping generalisation is therefore a hazard scholars should avoid at all cost. \> **And precisely for this reason, India cannot afford to** **have** **a distorted understanding of Shaastra- Kavya - Sam****skrutham and pass on the authority over this to ' outsiders'**. Gita says (15.20)- iti** guhyatamam sastram** idam uktam mayanagha etad buddhva buddhiman syat krta-krtyas ca bharatha.

Now for the technical part.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

**Your post** **responding to BM's post** **reads** : Responding to BM's post reading \< Shastra created संज्ञा for the concepts. One can create new material, \> but can't use the same संज्ञा for it. New संज्ञा would develop. \> One can replace the deity or the logic, but can't use the same संज्ञा. \> The openness of early Indian thinkers amazes me!\>

you point

\< In my opinion this is a clear and accurate answer to the problem raised by Western Indology, and only needs elaboration with linguistic dressing.\>

**BVK Sastry observation** **(on** **technicality** **of** संज्ञा **)**: The issue is much more complex than needing a 'linguistic dressing'. Why? **Samjnas are DNA of Shaastra-Langu****a****ge - Discourse. If Samjnaa is corrupted,** **the understanding of Shaastra gets corrupted and leads to digestion-distortion-digression.** This is what the writings of Sheldon Pollok ' using distorted understanding of Samjnaa' has lead to. Here is how traditional schools present the concept of 'Samjnaa' in a Shaastra.

 Shaastra is a logical and contextual presentation of 'Darshana ( = Vision)' of a ' Yogi/ Risihi'. Shaastra is a Human composition and articulation made in a context for a purpose. Shaastra uses a technical language and discipline specific convention. The ' language of Vision is called 'Chandas'; The language of Shaastra is called ' Bhashaa'; The technical convention of Shaastra Vocabulary is called 'Paribhashaa'. The totality of all this is taught as part of Shaastra-studying methodology. The traditional word for this is ' Shaastra -Paribhashaa'.

**** **Shaastra-P****a****ribhashaa technicality** **covers three '** **linguistics** **pro****positions** **and positions****'** **that need** **to** **be used for** **valid** **decod****ing** **of** **the meaning of given S****haastra text** ( or any text that claims to be a Shaastra status). This is way beyond the ' linguistic dressing' on the model of ' window dressing for shopping of products'.

 The 'three propositions and positions' needed for proper understanding of 'Shaastra - Samjnaa -Paribhashaa' are as follows: (a) Acceptance of
rules of decoding the given Samksruth Technical Vocabulary using the same principles and processes by which they were coined. (b) Acknowledging the Root source of Shaastra and Shaastra paribhashaa to Vedas as Sacred Spiritual texts of Vision (i.e. Acceptance of Integrity of Shaastra-Darshanas) (c) Recognizing the unique yet intertwined harmony in approach and goal of Shaastra and Kavya : position and proposition do not change the end goal and integrity of approach.



 All these criticalities of Shaastra-Kavya study are violated and badly substituted in Colonial writings, on which Sheldon Pollock draws upon to build the next level stories of understanding -propagating Shaastra -Kavya.

 Shaastra paribhashaa is a 'Technical Vocabulary of given discipline'. The technical word has discipline specific meaning. The technically defined meaning can (and in many cases does) carry a plurality of meanings and multivalent communications. Decoding Samjna
needs the help of two Vedanga Shaastras called - Vyakaranam and Nirukta. The pooled list of 'Samjnas' is placed in a document called
'paribhashaa-pada-kosha' = Technical Vocabulary of given Shaastra discipline. This is to be first studied and comprehended before taking up debates and discourses.

 At this point, the technical specific meaning of the word goes beyond ' literal meaning' to the next level , far beyond the ' linguistic dressing' ( which a translator will use ; and take recourse to tools like Thesaurus !) In Samskrutham technically each word is unique; There is no exact equivalent ; There is no substitution plausible or suggested; More so in Shaastra works. This is the norm violated by post colonial writers in interpreting Shaastra through the lens of local languages and using dictionary of Monier Williams. **Interest in study does not mean right to interpret bad !** Or self-positioning as authority on Shaastra-discipline, violating the Masters. The humbleness of Indian Shaastra traditionalists to be
'Backward compliant and repeat the words of old texts and re-assert the authority to Vedas is considered ' regressive' by scholars wedded to colonial thought process. This is the position embraced by Sheldon Pollock which hurts the traditional Shaastra study. The position that 'Sanskrit is dead' does not help to study the ' Live relevance of Shaastra and Kavya in Samskrutham'.

  For example, if one desires to study Vedanta, one must start the study from 'Vedanta-paribhashaa' before taking next 'progressive or regressive' discourse step in commenting / translating Vedanta Shaastra. To discuss meemaamsaa Shaastra, one need to go to 'meemaamsaa paribhashaa' ; To study Tarka, one goes to ' Tarka paribhashaa'. And so on. The ' paribhashaa' words may ( and are in many cases) drawn from Vedic resources, and given discipline specific meaning, without violating the primary ' Vision-Meaning and Purpose of the word'. Example: The word 'Prakruti' comes from 'Veda'; but when used across Vedanta, Meemaamsaa , Ayurveda, Samkhya, Vyakarana..Shaastras, the word carries different technical meanings. Tradition has a special sacred discipline to explore ' Kama' ( Human Sexuality) also as a 'Shaastra) and Kavya works are aplenty on this theme . When Kama-Shastra is studied as ' Sexuality -Erotic's by removing the 'Shaastra nature of it, the associated sacredness and its integrity with Higher concepts of Dharma and Moksha, the tradition gets misrepresented. This is the violation where Sheldon Pollock hurts.

 In this sense, the given 'paribhashaa word (संज्ञा word )' is using a 'Visioned word' for a purpose; as a special technical word in the discipline. The technical word defined by the Shaastrakaara provides a sculpted perspective of the visioned word in that specific discipline; and may undergo a change / evolution over a period of Time ( as BM points out). A study of this is a part of understanding and doing research in Shaastra. **The traditional** **scholars** **use the summary statement reading \< Samjnaa cha paribhashaa cha, vidhirniyama eva cha..> to explain the pedagogy and scope of Shaastra. Many western studies, including Po****llock violates these set norms.**

 Then how does one state the technical position of tradition to study Shaastra - Kavya -Samjnaa ? It starts from the 'Statement of Purpose and Method', technically called **'Anubandha Chatushtaya'** **coupled with 'Anvaya-Krama'**. This covers the preliminary and vital issue of 'Adhikaara -Yogyataa' of Teacher and Taught. Many modern schools engaged in Shaastra studies, including lead names in Sanskrit studies violates this norm set by tradition; using the shield of ' academic freedom' and ' relative position for comparative studies'. The issues of caste and religion, social justice over Spiritual Welfare (Adhyatma) governs the selection for ' posts of power and profit' in employing institutions. Shaastra-Schoalrship becomes an issue of livelihood earning, which Is totally different from the original purpose of ' Moksha'. Thus, unless social relevance of ' Shaastra-Kavya -Samjna' is presented in a ' linguistically appropriate New Dress', it will not go any further in research. Messed up writings in the name of Shaastra cannot further the research in Shaastra -Kavya in any way !

 This ' position' and postulation' hurts many for their inner pride and lead to a long unwinding of defensive statements or lamentation; for it is a factual bitter Truth. The bitterness is because of the failure to articulate and answer ' Why Samskruth Shaastra research ? How does it help deliver and steer global welfare beyond pushing a pride on achievement by past generations? Why are the current institutions failing to capture, articulate, deliver the Vision of Shaastra in current period ? for Global consumer ? Why Samskruth is not a driver in the field of World Language-Technologies, like English ? It is in this part, Rajiv Malhotras battle for Sanskrit are commendable. They have raised significant questions that need to be answered by traditional schools as well as ' Faith-pride defenders' as well as those who \< seek Government fund to support Shaastra research>.

Coming back to the main part of my response on \< संज्ञा \>

 Traditional schools demand (a) Shaastra to be seen, positioned and studied as an integral part of Veda and (b) Shaastra-Vyakhyana to be subservient to Veda.

This is the core premise of 'Samskrutham- Sacredness -Spiritual nature (Adhyatmataa)' on which the ' Bharateeya Samskruti-Samskar-Identity is built and continuing'.

 Strategically if one destroys the integral relation of 'Samskruth and its Sacredness' , the net effect is ' injecting poison at the DNA level to distort the understanding of all that is built on 'Samskruth as the language of Shaastra and Kavya ∷ Veda -Vedanta-Yoga- Ramayana- Mahabharata-Purana- Tantra-Agama'. This point was raised long ago by Colonial linguists; and they have postulated ' alternate position and postulate' to study Shaastra- Kavya' through the lens of 'Historical language modeling for Sacred Texts and languages of India'. The crux of this issue has not been addressed strongly, positively and conclusively.

 This 'poorvapaksha ' of colonial scholar to traditional scholar' needs research and support. The question is:How is Samskruth Different from other languages of the World ? Why Hold Samskruth unique and sacred above every other language used by world religions - Hebrew, Arabic, Aramic,.. ? What is meant by Deva-Bhashaa ? whose God/s ?

 The traditional Shaastra researcher /Defender has to answer this question on a different plank other than ' Faith -Belief' and put it to the 'Scientific touch stone'. It is here that Shaastra-Scholar Researcher needs support; and that is not coming forth from those ' Shaastra loving, Shaastra -proud, Communities who want their Root and continuing Identities to be anchored to Shaastra. Failing to invest and safeguard their own texts providing roots and identities, the ' job' is outsourced' beyond India ! to 'Scholars of Religion, History, National cultures and languages'. The outcome is the current battle front.

 According to traditional position, the ' Shaastra- researcher / discourses / translator has to acknowledge, accept and respect the integral connection of 'Shaastra' ( Logic) with 'Vedas'( = Vision, Sacredness, Yoga, Darshana). The Shaastra discourse and dialogue ( Poorvapaksha and Siddhanta) must work within the frame of ' Veda'. Even if it be a 'Charvaka of past' or ' Modern Charvaka'. The outcome of discourse needs to be validated by Yoga-Vijnana ( which is far above the current bio-and neuro sciences. The hot debate of Matter and Consciousness paradigm in Advanced theoretical physics needs to be reconciled to Gita-paradigm (Chapter 7- 'Bhoomiraponalo vayuh.. ) used in Shaastras; the understanding of ' Life (Prana and Ayush) in Shaastra needs to be validated by Bio- and Neuro scientists and Ayurveda-Shaastra researchers. This is where funding support for Shaastra -research is needed and Scholar-Champions of cause to investigate ' fundamental research issues in Shaastra' beyond ' grant seeking to deliver a market product'.



Summing up, to Guard the right understanding of **Samjnas****, which** **are** **the** **DNA of Shaastra** **and Kavya****-Langu****a****ge - Discourse****, Support funding** **is needed****.**

**Allowing** **Samjnaa****-Corruption leads to speeding up of** **digestion-distortion-digression** **of Traditional** **Disciplines.**

Regards

BVK Sastry

-----------------

-----Original Message-----  
From: [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() \[[mailto:bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\] On Behalf Of Kalicharan Tuvij  
Sent: Tuesday, 01 March, 2016 10:31 AM  
To: भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Page 389 in Rajiv Malhotras 'Battle for Sanskrit'



--



