+++
title = "063 Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)	2016-03-05, 09:27:19 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/4fWAEj38Pzc)]]



Namaste



On the specific statement of Professor Aklujkar, continuing on this thread on \< page 389 in Rajiv Malhotra’s Battle for Sanskrit>



And Professor Aklujkars post addressing ‘ One of the main reasons’ -
\< why Sanskrit is in such a precarious position at present is the aloofness of traditional scholars from what is happening around them."> .



**( Note**: Please note that I am not making a sermon, beyond sharing what my teacher said in responding to this question and options I had to choose in shaping my life.)



I hope the view shared below of \< my teacher, a traditional scholar> and their action-perception to respond on \< what is happening around them> in shaping social, personal and spiritual welfare for own families and society \> would be taken note of. It also may explain why many wards of traditional scholars end up as taking a different social profession like engineers, doctors and still are deeply ‘committed to Dharma in their heart’.



**Sharing My \< traditional teachers view on this issue>** :
Samskrutha Scholars, especially ‘Vaidikas’ were pushed to a low-power- social minority status since 17^(th) century, slowly and steadily due to the failure of the 75% of Society constituted by Kshatirya –Vaishya –Shudras failing to do their Swa-Dharma and ‘ making Prajna-Vada /Prajnaa-Aparadha’ on Dharma. The social shifts (Yuga-Dharma) leading to the prioritization of ‘Artha’ (Consummation of Position, Power and
Wealth for personal comfort and worldly bodily pleasures) by 75% of society needed a different icon in society which had to show the other side of ‘Social renunciation of Artha’ to guard and achieve the Higher goals of life. The net result was a split of the ‘ Paramartha-Purushartha Unified’ approach to Dharma practice to ‘ Isolated model of Dharma in house and A-Dharma in society’ model ! This is the legacy of 75% of society in non-brahmana-Varna segment of India, in post 1700 A.D.



The path chosen by the ‘Vaidika –Shaastra kara – Brahmanas’ was called ‘ voluntary acceptance of poverty and failure of Vedic tradition to produce wealth and welfare for its practitioners = Worldly unwise, even though other –worldly wise. The drift of Dharma in 75% of society to ‘Mata (religion) approach in interpretation, ‘ Lowered quality and quantum in practice of Samskaras leading to ‘A-Dharma/Alpa Dharma’ was not possible to be regulated by the ‘Vaidika Brahmanas’. Maharashtra history –post Sambaji provides ample evidence to substantiate how ‘Punya-Pattana /Vidya che –Maher’ underwent mutation and transformation; the same way as Kashi and other major centers of Vedic studies went.



Such ‘Vaidikas’ social life was to be supported by the ‘ Guru-peetham and Mathas’ in society, which again went under the Control of the combine of ( Raja /dawning to be a Kshatriya) King + ( Trader masquerading as Arya-Vaishya) and rest of the society tracing their gene roots and lineage to Sri Krishna himself ( giving up his ideals of teaching!) . The corruption of ‘Guru-peetham and Mathams lead to social and spiritual decay over three centuries as of now; and we are lamenting. And still the ‘Vaidika Samskrit Scholars’ are to carry the social blame for social decadence. 



It is in this back drop, each ‘Vaidika Sanskrit Scholar’ is advised inside the family and tradition : Choose your battle field. Make Right Choice (‘yathecchasi tatha Kuru’ after ‘ Vimrushya etat asheshena) after due deliberation. Work in such a way that your own social and spiritual life remains balanced and enriched. Don’t be a social janitor .Dont invoke the ‘ authority of Avatar on yourself, unless you have done enough Tapas and blessings to wage the war’. Be a good soldier and servant of Dharma.Pass on the inheritance (moola dhanam) to the right persons without distortion. Enrich the traditional understanding , if you can through your own intellectual contributions and making Dharma relevant for ‘ Dhaaranaa of Prajaa = Making Dharma practice yield good life here and now’. Perform ‘Swa-Karma’ depending upon what your ‘ Swa-Bhaava’ –‘Swa-Dharma’ provides.



If you choose and desire to be happy to guard the tradition, focus on Guarding the tradition . Do nothing to cause harm to it.



 What is ‘ Tradition’-?



 Is it the guarding of historical contextualized continuity of culture-practice outfit (Kama and Artha Dahrma) , ending in making Culture a cult-practice

OR

Is it providing an appropriate outfit for bringing out the ‘ Occult-Mystic Unified Spiritual and Social Welfare ( Moksha Dharma-Karma /Brahma-Karma)’ to current and future community even if it means ‘ giving up ‘ worn out formats of past cultural-practice outfits ( Vassamsi jeernaani yatha vihaya.. / Seemollanghana /Transcending but not violating Dharma, Reconstructing and not destroying the cultural continuity of practices, Make Dharma Tree to be a fruit yielding one and not fuel-utility worth asset.)



What are the life style choices that traditional scholars had because of such limited option ?



A\) **Teaching (Become a Guru /Acharya / upadhyaya)** : A ‘Traditional Scholar – of Past in ‘Rajashraya/ /’ whose social life needs were taken care ‘ remained aloof from what was happening around them’ ‘ because their sole energy attention was invested for two things (A-1) ‘ **Loka-Kalayana’** through Education with the goal of Shaping NEXT GENERATION SCHOALRS who can Guard and Pass on the Tradition . Traditionally called ‘ Shihsya-Paramparaa’. This is absolute compassion and care for traditional continuity and connectivity across the past through present to the future.



The live examples of such continuity are still seen in Traditionally ‘Institutions’ which have not yielded to ‘Guru-Brand building and blessing corrupt politicians for pecuniary gains’.



Those traditional institutions and teachers who fell in to this trap have seen their bitter end after a short stint of ‘ meteoric burning brightness, highlighted in media’.



(A-2) **Become a Siddha –Yogi –Vaidya -Purohita :All of who deliver Dharma-Welfare as Practicing Professionals to society** : Your goal is to delvier ‘ **Loka Samgrahama/ Loka-Uddhara** through Sva-Karma /Swa Dharma Practice’ serving as Present period ICONS /Mascots of Traditional Excellence – presented in dress code, life style, food habits, Ethics, and getting in to side-wings at the appropriate time ( as Vanaprastha / Sanyasa) Or stepping forward to defend Dharma on battle field ( Like Bheeshma, Sri Krishna, Sayancharya) .



This is the essence of Iconic ‘Nara-Naryana’ model of traditional Yogi icon of ‘ Traditional scholar’, who have the capability for Yoga discourse on an academic platform or Yoga-strategic war on a political kurukshetra on international arena. When they act and how they act for ‘ Dharma-Samsthapana + Adharma Naasha’ is not an issue for public discourse.



What then is our duty as ‘ Scholar who had the privilege of getting a peek and partial access to the inheritance of Veda-Vyasa Heritage called Indian traditional wisdom’ ?, In Sri Ramanuja’s words – (Asti me hasti shailagre pitru-paitamaham Dhanam…:: I have the ancestral wealth of my inheritance on the peak of the mountain called ‘Hasti Shaila’ ( todays Melukote at Karnataka)’? 



Regards

BVK Sastry



--  



