+++
title = "003 Hnbhat B.R."

+++
[[Hnbhat B.R.	2013-11-15, 08:37:53 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/-AyUasn3N9g)]]



There something special in respect of ह्रस्व अकार, which we Sanskrit  
Scholars considered as good, do not take into consideration.  
  
विवृतमूष्मणां स्वराणां च। ह्रस्वस्याऽवर्णस्य प्रयोगे संवृतम्।  
प्रक्रियादशायां तु विवृतमेव। एतच्च सूत्रकारेण ज्ञापितम्। तथाहि।।  
(11)अ अ । 8-4-68  
इति विवृतमनूद्य संवृतोऽनेन विधीयते। अस्य चाष्टाध्यायीं सम्पूर्णां  
प्रत्यसिद्धत्वाच्छास्त्रदृष्ट्या विवृतत्वमस्त्येव। तथा च सूत्रम्।।  
(12)पूर्वत्रासिद्धम्। 8-2-1  
अधिकारोऽयम्। तेन सपादसप्ताध्यायीं प्रति त्रिपाद्यसिद्धा त्रिपाद्यमपि  
पूर्वं प्रति परं शास्त्रमसिद्धं स्यात्।  
  
If the प्रयोग of ह्रस्व अकार as संवृत is heard by those who use it in  
प्रयोग as विवृत like other vowels, as consonant ending words  
preceding the ह्रस्व अकार, it is not the fault of those who pronounce  
it as संवृत, but it is the fault of those who do not hear it clearly  
to distinguish from consonant Ending words which are not usually used  
in Hindi. But only संवृत अकार, which grammatically correct and it is  
the fault of those who misspell it like other vowels and could not  
distinguish it from consonant ending words if any used during the news  
reading.  
  
This is the opinion of my Grammar Teacher, who used to say this very  
frequently, north Indian pronounciation is correct grammatically and  
विवृत अ used by South Indians, in their languages is grammatically  
wrong.  
  
I think this kind of finding fault with others' pronounciation should  
be carefully posed, as none of us have ever heard how Panini or  
Bhattoji pronounced the vowels, but only we ourselves deem our  
pronunciation correct what we have heard from other people in our  
region and speaking regional language and try to correct others'  
pronunciation.  
  
In fact, Hindi speaking people would never confuse between the  
pronounciations of cononants and संवृत अकार which is natural to Hindi  
language. Only others mishear it and confuse it with consonants  
preceding it.  





