+++
title = "005 Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma"

+++
[[Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma	2010-09-27, 08:58:36 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/tN8lxy5-94E)]]



अभिवन्द्य,  
Here follows excerpts from <http://www.dattapeetham.com/india/festivals/2007/veda_conference/report.html>  
relevant to the line of discussion.  
  

The session was presided over by Sri KV Ramakrishnamacharya, vice chancellor – Jagadguru Ramananda Rajasthan Samskruta Viswa Vidyalaya, Jaipur. Himself an erudite Sanskrit grammarian, Sri Acharya released a treatise on Srouta System of Rituals, called Darsa Poorna maasa Prakaasa. The publication was by Sri Vasudeva Paranjape in honour of his nonagenarian Teacher Sri Dinakar Bala Krishna Jogalekar of Ratnagiri, Maharashtra; who was present on the occasion.

**Rituals are classified as 1.Srouta 2.Smarta 3.Pouranika. Rituals, for which – the methodology, procedures are detailed by Sruti (Veda) are called Srouta Rituals. Ceremonies, prescribed by Rishis, with an inference to Veda Vakyas (Vedic verses), are termed as Smaarta Rituals. All other rituals and prayers found in Puranas (mythology) are called as Pouranika Karma.**

The book related to Ishti system of rituals on the verge of extinction, stipulated to be performed on every Poornima (Full moon) day and Amavasya (New moon) day. It was reprint of a old publication in Devanagari (Samskruta) script.

Later, Swamy Manasa Datta has explained the mission of Sri Swamiji and activities of Datta Peetham in English to the visiting scholars.

**For this session, key note address was by Vamshi Krishna Ghanapathi. He has spoken on the subject, Underlying meaning of Vedic Rituals. Most of us conduct rituals, without knowing its meaning and purpose. To know the meaning of the ritual, results in complete benefit to the performer. Important Messages from some of the procedures in the rituals are:**  

**Iswara Samarpana** – Offer the result of your action to God, without expecting anything in return  
**Pray for Abundance** to satiate your desire, rather than usurp someone’s share.  
**Identify the common factors** in every creature to increase acquaintance, which is the essence of Vedic Texts  
**Realise that you are not the actual doer**, but a tool in the hands of divine. Hence, never claim/ think that you are the owner/ boss of the objects/subjects/wealth, deemed to be your own.  
**Habituate to Identify divinity**/ existence of all pervading Brahman in every creature/ atom without any exception. Thus the chances of perpetration of violence decrease.  
**Respect the right of life**/ existence conferred on every being. Never lay your claim on others’ rights. If found inevitable, request temporal rights with humility.  
(Thanks to Sri Vamsi Krishna Ghanapathi for the Report.)  
  

2010/9/17 Shrikant Jamadagni \<[shrik...@yahoo.co.in]()\>



  
  
  
--  
Aangirasa/Dr.S.Ramakrishna Sharma. M.A.,Ph.D.(Eng.Lit.),Ph.D.(Sanskrit.).  

