+++
title = "005 Nagaraj Paturi"

+++
[[Nagaraj Paturi	2017-06-18, 16:51:19 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/ynh97Vw2Cnk)]]



On another list,

  

Sri Jijith Namaduri Ravi posted as follows:

  

Dear All  
  
Genetics / human genome data, is like an unfinished, but developing  
picture, that is slowly emerging, like archaeology. The picture will be  
finished only when genomes of the people of the whole world at current  
times upto a resonable past of a few 1000s of years back, is mapped with  
reasonable data density and with minimal sampling biases.  
  
Data density and sampling biases are a huge problem in genomic research.  
This has given rise to varying claims by different research groups.  
  
Besides, there is a tendency to equate genetic migration to linguistic  
migration. Language migrations need not always follow genetic migration.  
Language is a mental phenomenon while genes are a phyical bodiy phenomenon.  
  
At this stage where data collection is still unfinished, researchers can  
only play with statistical data containing sampling biases. It is  
unfortunate that science is used this way to score political points.  
  
One issue i noticed after i re read this Hindu writeup is that it is mum  
about the amount of ancestral DNA sampled from Indian Subcontinent yet make  
sweeping statement about Aryan migration to India as fully solved. The  
researchers only have some ancestral DNA from Eurasia and the rest is  
modern DNA from Eurasia and Indian Subcontinent. So the conclusion about  
migration from Steppes to Europe is proovable with this data set but no  
finalizing conclusion can be made about migration from Steppes to India.  
Besides genetic migration need not always mean a linguistic migration. So  
it is equally possible that a few genes came to India from steppes yet Indo  
European language originated in India and migrated westward, keeping origin  
of Sanskrit in India and geography of Vedic seers lying within India, like  
the UP, Hariyana Punjab region proposed by Shrikant Talageri.  
  
Here is what i wrote in an fb discussion on this:-  
  
It is interesting to note the authors conclusion that everyone in India is  
a migrant sounding like an excuse for all invasions into India like the  
British and Islamic. Why would a land locked country like India be a target  
of migration all over from west north and east? If we take migration from  
steppes to India in isolation we may somehow be inclined to believe it. But  
he then says west asian farmers too migrated to India and not vice versa,  
that East Asians (Austro Asiatic Munda speakers) too migrated to india and  
not vice versa, Tibeto Burman Garos migrated from north east asia to India  
and not vice versa, it is then the pattern of migration sounds absurd and  
sinister motive start getting visibility.  
  
Here is a piece of land abundant in resources with highest genetic  
diversity second only to East Africa which is more probable to be a  
'SOURCE' of migration rather than as a 'DESTINATION' much like the East  
Africa, the original human homeland and source of all human migration. The  
only probable explanation making sense is to consider Indian Subcontinent  
as one of the major secondary source of human migration after original  
migrants from Africa arrived in India along its southern, peninsular  
shoreline where it is not locked by the formidable Himalayas. When  
population density of the Indian Subcontinent increased some inhabitants  
crossed the formidable himalayan barrier and went in all directions- to  
west, east and north.  
  
Any invading army would be able to march to india through Himalayas only  
when technology evolved and supported it like with the Alexander's armies.  
  
Even European colonization of India was never through the high Himalayas  
but via the sea route and coastal regions. Only costal regions are open  
enough for massive migrations to India which can make big genomic shifts.  
  
It is a cleverly crafted piece with poor understanding of the mitochondrial  
DNA and without any proper link to original researcher's works as far as i  
can see and instead talk about email communcation with researchers etc.  
The concluding paragraph also give away the poor understanding of the  
article author Mr Tony Joseph.  
  
All signs of dubiousness  
  
  
Regards  
Jijith  

  





> --  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+unsubscribe@googlegroups.com]().  
> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.  



