+++
title = "004 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-02-13, 12:48:15 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/aQTm-F0zods)]]



Namaste



Classic illustrations of how missing ‘Yoga’- Nirvachana’ paddhati of Samskrutha Shabda ‘ has affected the understanding of the texts of tradition. On the top of which one can add errors due to (a) Translation –Meaning Mapping errors and (b) Motives in using lens of theology to interpret Vedic Tradition and (c ) absurdities in observed practices with multiple-layers of corrupted understanding . 



The combine of these errors have lead to the destruction of the
integrity and integral understanding of Shaastra –Paddhati .



**Simple position**: Sathya cannot be understood by ‘ logical reasoning to negate ‘ mithyaa’. Sathya can be visioned and experienced through
‘Yoga –abhyasa’ yielding ‘Darshana’. 



1. In Yoga-Sutra, the term \< प्रत्यक्ष> is NOT limited to \< Direct perception \> based on ‘Senses ( Indriya –Vishaya – grahana/ again narrowed down to eyes ( =drushta) and ears ( =shruta))’.

 The sutra also covers ‘ Buddhi based perception’ and ‘ Attendriaya darshana’ also. Explore Gita based Yoga clues from \< Pratyaksham=
aksham aksham prati - Covers all indriyas ( indriyasya indriyasya arthe) and this includes Manas; Pratykasharam = Covers all unit sounds of immutable nature that Nature has provided as Akshara –samaamnaaya. ‘ aksharam brahma- paramam’ – akshara-yoga.

 \< प्रत्यक्ष-अनुमान-आगमाः प्रमाणानि॥७॥ - Direct perception, inference and competent evidence, are proofs.> The current translations and explanations / practices do not touch upon this range of Yoga practice guidance. The key is understanding the term ‘Yoga’ as a ‘Shaastra and Sutra’ and then making ‘ Artha- Nirvachana (= Nirukti)’ using what’Shaastra’ means. Shaastra is that where one is guided (= Upaaya) to ‘vision and experience (= darshana- anubhava- Saadhana) in the matters NOT comprehended by the ‘ pratyaksha- anumana.’ Therefore, when the ealm is ‘ ateendriaya’, the ‘ human logic’ does not find reason and relevance to enter this area. **Some Acharyas use the term** **‘ Brahma-Tarka’ for this concept.** It is ‘ Ateendriya-Pratyakahsha –anumana- Vimarha’.

2. As for the terms ‘Rahu- Ketu’ now connected with sky-phenomenon of eclipses and observances of a ‘ religion-Culture’ nature, drawing a ‘dictut from Phala-Jyotisha and Dharma –Shaastra, The texts of tradition , more specifically in YOGA and Vednaga Jyotisha explain ‘Rahu-Ketu’ as ‘ Modus operandi of Prana, deeply connected with Prana- aayama ( badly translated as beath regulation). The conceptuality, Symbolism and context of Rahu and Ketu related explanation in texts of tradition and observance is an advanced Yoga Practice packaged and let out in society. The advanced yoga texts map the entire time - cycle of breath to the scale of one earth cycle (=samvatasara) around the Sun and the ‘ Grahanas’ are technically experienced as a ‘ Kumbhaka experience on Mind( Emotions/ Manas/Chadra) and Buddhi/Atma/Surya) in Body (=Shareera). The external community practice of religion-culture specific observance is to help laity to get the benefit of sky-phenomenon on individual body –mind –psyche.

When the ‘ body of the individuals in the community is insensitive to the dynamics of Sky’ and the ‘ localized environment ( of radiations and the like) is shielding any sensitivity of sky to touch the ‘ individual’, the observances end up as ‘ inexplicable, cultural compulsions and faith belief practices’. Add to this, the adamant stand of modern science and ‘ intellectuals’ to see beyond their nose - tip and shift their eye-gaze from the outward mode to the inward mode ( = aavrutta-chakshuh) , which is critical to understand Yoga documented in Samskrutham. Would that be enough reason to make a case for Battle: Restoration of ‘Yoga-Samskrutham’ from ‘Sanskrit’ ?

Regards

BVK Sastry



--  

You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  

To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().



