+++
title = "014 Dr.BVK Sastry"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry	2018-02-15, 22:25:24 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/aQTm-F0zods)]]



Namaste Ramana Murthy

  

1. You are referring to the publication of Yoga-Sutra translation  \<
based on the book “Meditation As Spiritual Culmination- Yoga Aphorisms Of Patanjali- Raja Yoga Lectures By Swamy Sarvagatananda 1977 To 1981 – Volume One” Pages 58-66. \> . I am using the original source works and giving the reference and line of argument to interpret the sutra. You have the preferential choice to go by your liking.

  

  The line of \< Yoga-Samskrutham> Samskrutha Shabda Nirvachana Prakriyaa is almost dying in Indian scholarship teams; The translation schemas have never been able to capture the essence of the ' anvaya-mukha prakriyaa' which was certainly alive till Mallinatha in the history of Samskruth tradition. The quick-comprehension approach of English literature model to write the 'summary of the text' does not work satisfactorily with Samskruth Sutras. The resource quoted by you fails to bring out the multivalent meaning of ' Pratyaksha' in the sutra. 

  

 The add-on error that follows is the extension of ' inappropriate/ poor transaltion' of yoga-sutra to the domain of 'Vedanta' bypassing the ' Tarka-paddhati'.

 

  If there needs to be a 'Home Team rejuvenation project to restore
(Paninian) 'Samskrutham'  from ( anglicized ) 'Sanskrit' , the frame work of inspiration needs to be drawn using the relation of ' Pada-Shaastra' ( Vyakarana) with Vaakya (= Meemaamsaa)  and Pramana ( = Tarka) Shaastra to get the right communication ( Taatparya -Artha - Nirnaya). This traditional frame of 'Samskruth Study' is a reject in the modern schema and pedagogy of 'Sanskrit studies'. 

  

  

2. On \<In fact this is the translation given by Swamy Vivekananda in His book on “Patanjali Yoga Sutras Commentary by Swamy Vivekananda” \> , Again Swamy Vivekananda was NOT giving the literal Technical 'Vyaakhyaana' on Patanjali Yoga Sutras. Why not refer to source work like Vyasa Bhashya and other commentaries please?

  

3\. On \< All the books I have referred says प्रत्यक्ष is the knowledge by sense organs of knowledge. ..... Buddhi based perception. **Buddhi changes over a period of time and maturity. Then perception also should change.** The buddhi (intellect) I had in my boyhood is not same as that I have. **So as buddhi changes, the knowledge also changes.** Hence the color of the XYZ may change from black to blue as buddhi changes.

**Ateendriaya darshana. I accept there is Ateendriaya knowledge (parapsychology).** **But whether this अतींद्रिय knowledge comes under प्रमाण knowledge is debatable.** If comes under प्रमाण knowledge, then which category – प्रत्यक्ष orअनुमान or आगमा? And finally, the प्रत्यक्ष need not be confined to just eyes and ears. It can be extended to all the 5 sense organs of knowledge. For the purpose of brevity, only two are taken. \>

  

Ateendriya comes under Aagama; for which another name is 'Veda-Darshana' through Yoga.

  

Regards

BVK Sastry



