+++
title = "021 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2013-06-18, 19:40:48 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/94uTaqg0dlo)]]



Namaste Dr Misra,

  

Thanks you for exploring further. As they say "pushing the envelope".

  

Incidentally, some of you may know that "shani trre" also has some interesting properties that are associated with "Laxmi" and water. residing inside as garbha,

  

This tree has unique capability of bringing up the water table.

  

Water is located as close as 10-15 feet from the tree., This information is often used by the "Water Locators" at the time of digging a new well on the farms.  

  

Therefore, cutting a shami tree near an well is always to be discouraged. Similar properties are also associated with "peepal tree". Cutting down a peepal tree during urbanization has always resulted in drying of wells. I often see that our ancestors gave us the clues for our benefit through many illustrations. and it is up to us (the present generation) to discover and use the information (utility principle) for larger benefit of the society.  

  

Best Rgds

  

Dr Yadu  

  

  

>  style="font-family:times new roman,new york,times,serif;font-size:10pt"> >
>  style="font-family:times new roman,new york,times,serif;font-size:12pt"> >
> 
> > ------------------------------------------------------------------------ >
> 
> > 
> > 

>  style="font-family:times new roman,new york,times,serif;font-size:10pt"> >
>  style="font-family:times new roman,new york,times,serif;font-size:12pt"> >
> 
> > **From:** Nityanand Misra \<[nmi...@gmail.com]()\>  
> **To:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
> > 
> > 
> > 

>  style="font-family:times new roman,new york,times,serif;font-size:10pt"> >
>  style="font-family:times new roman,new york,times,serif;font-size:12pt"> >
> 
> > **Cc:** Nityanand Misra \<[nmi...@gmail.com]()\>; sadasivamurty rani > \<[ranisada...@yahoo.com]()\>; [sivas...@gmail.com](); subrahmanyam > korada \<[kora...@gmail.com]()\>; Ashok Aklujkar > \<[ashok.a...@gmail.com]()\>  
> **Sent:** Monday, June 17, 2013 6:36 PM  
> **Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} > Pandav Geeta Shloka  
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 





