+++
title = "001 S. L. Abhyankar"

+++
[[S. L. Abhyankar	2017-11-06, 09:46:41 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/_w1ShqfczhY)]]



नमस्ते श्रीमन् उज्ज्वल-राजपूत-महोदय !

  

There are said to be some places, one in Karnataka, one in Madhya Pradesh, one in Rajasthan, where everyone is said to be speaking Sanskrit. If we consider people there to be native Sanskrit speakers, one needs to visit there and investigate there.

  

One motto of संस्कृतभारतीhas been to spread Sanskrit speaking. Success rate of "native speakers" trained byसंस्कृतभारतीabout the grammatical accuracy of speech of these native speakers can also be a part of the investigation implicit in your question.

  

Before undertaking any such investigation, should one set Research objectives ? One objective can be to find whether "native Sanskrit speech" really promotes good Sanskrit or not. If investigation would reveal that promotion of good Sanskrit is not really happening, corollary objective would be to find, what good work can be said as being done by organizations such asसंस्कृतभारती?

  

As far as rules of संधि are concerned, to my mind, the rules of संधि even in शास्त्र-s do take cognizance of how the pronunciations happen natively. That can be the only reason/logic for there beingचोः कुः in onerule, and yetकुहोश्चुःin another or in शिक्षा - यथा सौराष्ट्रिका नारी तक्रँइत्यभिभाषते

  

My great worry is that promotion of native Sanskrit speech should not so emerge that, that would require rewriting the rules. If that would become the case, what Sanskrit has prevailed for thousands of years would no more be The Sanskrit, which Sanskrit-lovers such as myself love and respect. I guess, there would be many, who share my anxiety. By that, another objective of the investigation can be "Whither Sanskrit by promotion of native Sanskrit speech ?"

