+++
title = "004 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2016-08-17, 03:57:25 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/E7ZD60pfAps)]]



Namaste BVK

  

I agree with your statement,  

  

\>\>\>  
the traditional approach of ‘ Darshana – Mantra – Yajna –Yoga -
Itihaasa –Puraana – Rishi -Devataa’ model for study –interpretation and practice of ‘VEDA’.

\<\<\<

  

Here one needs to aks why was this our ancestors may have recommended all of the above to be practiced as,"viniyoga", which I is not just, WHAT TO DO? and HOW TO DO, BUT ALSO WHY TO TO DO ?

  

Shaunaks clearly tells us that anyone reciting the vadika R^icha & suukta without knowing Chanda, devataa, R^iShi and viniyoga is mahaa paapi.

  

I have not seen any commentary of R^igveda that explicitly specifies the "VINIYOGA" aspects.

  

Why do you think the traditional scholars not paid any attention to this, has always puzzled me?

  

IMHO - All knowledge is for the living ans has to be utilized when one is alive. No matter how great the philosophy may be ***IT IS NO VALUE TO ME AFTER I AM DEAD***. As you may recall, this was the conclusion of my book on GaNesha.  

  

Best Rgds

  

Yadu  

  

>  style="font-family:HelveticaNeue,Helvetica Neue,Helvetica,Arial,Lucida Grande,sans-serif;font-size:12px"> >
>  style="font-family:HelveticaNeue,Helvetica Neue,Helvetica,Arial,Lucida Grande,sans-serif;font-size:16px"> >
> 
> > ------------------------------------------------------------------------ >
> **From:** BVKSastry(Gmail) \<[sastr...@gmail.com]()\>  
> **To:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
> **Sent:** Monday, August 15, 2016 9:29 PM  
> **Subject:** RE: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Mantra and Beeja mantra  
> > 
> > 
> > 



