+++
title = "004 Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma"

+++
[[Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma	2010-07-22, 14:43:53 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/tlv3bg-5VMA)]]



नमांसि,

  
\>a wise ploy of Kula Guru/ Purohita Vasishtha  

Maharshi ....  
  
Dasharathakrta Shanaishchara Stotra which is part of Shani-Pradosha-Vrata-Katha  
and the narration states that at the behest of Brahmarshi Vasishta and others, Dasharatha  
undertook the tapas to please Shanaishchara as the crossing of him through Rohini-Shatka  
would cause kshama-Damara in the kingdom. Dasharatha wanted to avoid the aftermath upon his  
people and hence asked the people also to pursue Shani-Pradosha worship.  
Pleased by the penance and stotra of the Emperor, Shanaishchara agreed not to cross the Rohini-Shatka  
as long as Dasharatha continues to rule.  
As Shani-Pradosha Vrata alleviates the issue of nis-santana, Dasharatha was blessed with children. Whoever does  
parayanam of Shani-Pradosha-Mahatmyam also gets santanam.  
  
This episode is in the collection of Seven Pradosha Vrata Katha and Puja compiled by a Yati who belongs to Sringeri Tradition. Thus for each Vara-Pradosha, that is Soma, Bhouma, Budha, Guru, Shukra, Shani and Ravi in conjunction with Pradosha there is prescribed Pradosha-Puja and Parayanam with specific phalam.

  
  
\>Valmeeki is not just a poet; he was a Srotriya, Brahma Nishtha and Drashta. None  
of the events described in Valmeeki Raamaayan shall be be presumed as  
imaginary beauties of the Poet - I believe.  
  

So too, many practices in the Sat-Sampradaya-Parampara are followed with same shraddha. Certain things may not be available for ready reference in a text. This is a general observation in the context of queries regarding accepted practices which are vouchsafed by yield/result.  
  
Hari Om.  
  
  

2010/7/21 VKG \<[vkghan...@gmail.com]()\>  



  
  
  
--  
Aangirasa/Dr.S.Ramakrishna Sharma. M.A.,Ph.D.(Eng.Lit.),Ph.D.(Sanskrit.).  

