+++
title = "008 Dr.BVK Sastry (Gmail)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (Gmail)	2013-08-31, 00:21:08 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/g27Q6pBsZEw)]]



Namaste



1. On the point \< What is paramanu cannot be equated with atom of physical science. > I agree \< It should be clear by nowthatthe relationship between **actual** scientific theory and a corresponding philosophical speculation is quite interesting and complex. More on this, if you are interested.\>



 When discussion line is \< anu-paramanu :: Atom – Sub atomic> as the pointer line by the words, how do we look at the paradigm of \<Atom: Molecule :: Hydrogen and Oxygen combining to give a water molecule ?? and not a \< water atom> ?? \<Jala-anu / Jala –paramanu>?



2. If the researchers looking for Science in Sanskrit made an
error of judgement in equating



\< Material Science studies = Physical sciences paradigm> , where consciousness is not a subject of hypothesis or study \[ = Sthanu, the trunk of a tree without any branches and leaf\] > 

to

\< Nyaya –Vaisheshika /Samkhya –Yoga-Vedanta paradigm \[ = Purusha = Consciousness conceptualized integrally with Matter ; be it Saptapadartha –Nava dravya ; Ashta Prarkruthi – Purusha-Prakruti – Brahma Vivarta , Brahma Shareera >



USING A PREFERRED TRANSLATION and HASTE TO PROVE SCIENCE IN INDIAN TRADITIONS,



The out come is \< effort to find the atom of water ( which in material science is a molecule! H2O ) \>



Regards

BVK Sastry







**From:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() \[mailto:[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\] **On Behalf Of** V N Jha  
**Sent:** Wednesday, August 28, 2013 1:08 AM  
**To:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} कथं जलं नित्यम्?



I agree with Prof. Sarkar. I think if one keeps this fact in mind that the NyayaVaisheshika system does not provide report of an experiment in the Physical Laboratory then problems of this type can be minimised. This system provides you cognitive and logical analysis. Please see whether this makes any sense to you. What is paramanu cannot be equated with atom of physical sceience. Paramanu is the logical state or soucein terms ofwhich astructure or mass is related in cause and effect relationship. If this method of understanding is adopted it may make sense.



VNJha

On 27 August 2013 22:27, tushar sarkar \<[tushar...@hotmail.com]()\> wrote:

Snehaspadeshu Gadadhara,  
Your question/doubt about *'paramanutva'* of water is very pertinent. The way I see it proper to answer it is this:  
1. At the time of writingthe TS, it was believed that water is an elementary substance consisting of indivisible atoms. Even 300 yrs ago that was the belief among the thinkers/scientists in the West.  
2. The *naiyayikas* also ***assumed*** three things (a)that there has to be an intrinsic similarity between an effect & its cause, so that 'only likes can produce likes', (b) every basicelement in nature consists of'ultimately indivisible' atomic components and (c) thatallobjects of experience in the worldmust possess some specificsimple/basic *quality*(= tangible physical characteristics)e.g.,liquidity (ofwater),hardness (of earth), temperature (of fire)etc., or a specificcombinationthereof. So, every tangible physical feature of a naturalthing can be explained in terms of the qualities of water, fire, etc. or their combinations.  
3. **If** one accepts/assumes **all** the above, **then**it follows that according to the *nyaya* view, the ultimate constituents of each one of water, air, earth etc., ***must*** *be atoms* of the respective kinds, just as, **if**you accept/assume that the price of an orange is Rs. 200/- **then** for 3 oranges you have to pay Rs. 600/-. Whether that's the real price of an orange or not, does not matter.  
4. Therefore, if later day science contradicts the atomicity \[*paramanutva*\] of water, or of earth or fireetc., some of the *nyaya* **assumptions** need to be changed, but given the assumptions, the theory remains OK (= consistent).Unless looked in this way, it hardly makes sense to speak of atoms of 'fire'.5. Finally,[acc.to](http://acc.to/) modern science eventhe so-called atoms (of hydrogen etc.) are NOT really ***in****divisible*.It should be clear by nowthatthe relationship between **actual** scientific theory and a corresponding philosophical speculation is quite interesting and complex. More on this, if you are interested.  

Professor Tushar Sarkar.  
  


------------------------------------------------------------------------

Date: Tue, 27 Aug 2013 04:45:14 -0700  
From: [saunskr...@gmail.com]()  
To: [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
Subject: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} कथं जलं नित्यम्?



नमो नमः\|

अहं तृतीय वर्ष B.A. छात्रोsस्मि\| अस्माकं पाठ्यक्रमे तर्कसंग्रहः अस्ति\|

तत्र परमाणु रूपं जलं नित्यम्\| परं विज्ञाने H2O इति water molecule
भवति\| this molecule can be divided into atoms in the form of H-OH. if this molecule is divided in the form of H and OH it looses its property of 'जलत्वम्'. then how can we say "परमाणुरूपं जलं नित्यम्\|" जलस्य परमाणुरूपस्य अभावात् ?

  
  
--  



