+++
title = "001 Jagannatha S"

+++
[[Jagannatha S	2010-06-10, 08:59:44 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/Rjgf5_8qoUs)]]



The lists of titles of Ph.D thesis with the names of the guides and  
the candidates are available at the websites of the Universities.  
  
I am suggesting here some titles for Ph.D.that can be taken by the  
future research candidates.  
  
The art Avadhaaana or focusing cum concentrating. Its situation in  
various states, particularly Karnataka-Dr. R.Ganesh's marvelous  
presentations.  
  
Modern Vedic literature- Maharshi Daivarata.(Chandodarshana) , Navala  
Kishora Kankar(Rashtraveda), and Swami Vedabharati(Chaandasii)  
  
Veda citation traditions- Gurukulas in Kerala, Matturu(Karnataka) and  
Mysore.  
  
Madhusudan Ojha’s contribution to Vedic studies.  
  
Sanskrit translations from various languages: Kannada, Tamilu, Telugu,  
Malayalam, Gujarathi, Hindi, Bengali - foreign languages like French  
and German.  
  
Vishistadvaita-dravida works from the pen of Prativaadibhayankara  
Annangaraachaarya. Magazine-Vaidikamanoharaa.  
  
Sankhya and Hariharananda Vidyaranya.  
  
Saccidaanandendra Saraswathi's ‘back to Shankara' movement. His  
works on Adhyasabhaashya. Sacchidaanandendra Saraswathi was a non-  
traditional and rebel scholar of our times.  
  
Modern Sanskrit works on Vyakarana.  
  
Modern Sannskrit woks on Linguistics.Yubhaatah Bhaaratam prati by  
Dr.G.B.Palasule is highlighted.  
  
Vyakarana darshana(Philosophy of Sanskrit grammar) in three  
works :Vyakaranadarshana pratima, Vyakaranadarshana piithikaa and  
Vyaakaranadarshana bhuumikaa by Raamaajnaapandeya.  
  
Charudevashastri’s ‘Purifying’ Sanskrit usages with uncompromising  
firmness.  
  
Advaita works- commentaries on Advatasiddhi-Narendranatha Bagachi of  
Bengal and Narayanabhatta of Sringeri.  
  
Works of refutation and counter refutations: Particularly from Mathas  
of southern India-Even though they generate heated arguments, they do  
give very useful scholarly guidances like those of Anantacharya of  
Melukote.  
  
Works of Navinanyaya-Ramanuja Tatacharya  
  
Commentaries of Tarkasangraha- Shaktisanjiivini of Karur Ramashastri  
and and Tarkasangrahasarvasva of Kuruganta Ramashastri highlighted  
  
Uttamuru Viraraghavacharya's contributions to various shastras.  
  
Vaakyaarthas(open debates on traditional lines.)in Navadvipa,  
Bangalore, Bhavanagar, Kerala, Andhrapradesha, Kashi, Mithila and  
elsewhere. Vaakyaarthasabhaas in various mathas.  
  
Modern research works / thesis/ analytical essays in Sanskrit.  
  
High quality research journals in Sanskrit: Special reference of  
Saaraswathii Sushama and Saagarikaa.  
  
Modern commentaries on Shastric works- particularly Navyanyaaya.  
Panchalakshanii, Chaturdashalakshanii are highlighted.  
  
Sanskrit Magazines- Some of the extinct Magazines- Highligting  
Sarvagandhaa(Luknow),Vijnanacintamani(Kozikod), Candrika(Pune).  
  
A study of the works by Shree Krishna Brahmatantra parakalasvami  
  
Sanskrit Lyrics – traditional Sanskrit classical music- Sadashiva  
brahmendra, Swatitirunal so on and so forth.  
  
Post independence Sanskrit literature: Mahakaavyas, Khandakaavyas,  
novels, short stories, juvenile literature.  
  
Yakshagaanas in Sanskrit.  
Music literature in  
Sanskrit.  
  
Bhattashri Mathuranathashastri and his works. Use of metres of the  
languages other than Sanskrit.  
  
Modern Sanskrit works(pure literature and Shastric)in various states  
of our country.  
  
Simply quoting and making remarks(in most of the times, praising) is  
not sufficient. Analysis with comparing vast literature and clearly  
stating unacceptability of the views of the authors plus minus points  
in the literature(diction, intended ideas etc) are expected.  
  
As much as possible the language of the research works shall be  
Samskrta.  
  
Jagannatha.  



