+++
title = "099 Dr. T. Ganesan"

+++
[[Dr. T. Ganesan	2017-02-22, 14:49:08 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/KlKjUx7J9mY)]]



  
  
I fully agree with Sri Kalyan when he says ""I have noticed that  

whenever a logical contradiction is brought against the advaita school,  
people are immediately charged with "not understanding advaita".  

In fact the same happened to me 2 years back when I started bringing  
out some contradictions in Samkara's viewpoint and his interpretations  
in this forum. Members of this forum charged me with not enough/correct  
understanding of Samkara, and some others commenting that I have not  
studied the original texts, etc. etc. Some have given me (as they have  
done so for Kalyan also ) unsolicited advice .  
  
In fact at the end of a protracted discussion I sent my observation  
exactly as Sri Kalyan has now sent.  
Not only here, but in the forum ADVAITA also the same vehemence and  
virulent attack followed.  
  
It is clear that Samkara has been deified by these scholars and they  
firmly believe that all of Samkara's views/interpretations SHOULD BE  
ACCEPTED IN TOTO UNQUESTIONINGLY.  
  
All these are done by scholars who swear by Samkara for his highest  
logical acumen !!!!! (to repeat my final remark 2 years back)  
  
  
Ganesan  

  
  
On 22-02-2017 11:27, Kalyan K wrote:  
\>  
\> Since I have answered your questions, I request a favor. Please answer  
\> one of my questions. When Shankara has employed logic to argue against  
\> nyAya, vaisheshika, sAMkhya, mImAmsa, bauddha and other such schools,  
\> is it improper to employ logic against advaita? I have noticed that  
\> whenever a logical contradiction is brought against the advaita  
\> school, people are immediately charged with "not understanding  
\> advaita". Is it ok if other schools make similar charges against  
\> Shankara and his disciples? For example, can the bauddha charge  
\> Shankara with not understanding Buddhism? Or is there anything special  
\> about advaita that it is above all scrutiny?  
\>  
\> Regards  
\> Kalyan  

\> --  

