+++
title = "000 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2012-03-02, 10:16:51 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/rtSpSwkRfaE)]]



Most welcome and timely. Gautama and Yaskaacharya have shown how etymology is useful, in understanding words - particularly those of antiquity. I have already shown in these columns an example as to how the word khara in Valmiki Ramayana was misinterpreted by our Scholars at Baroda ORI, as donkeys per Amarkosha.



s.r.krishna murthy  
  

On Sat, Feb 25, 2012 at 7:07 AM, S. Kalyanaraman \<[kaly...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> <http://groups.yahoo.com/group/LangT/> >
> 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Description of the group:
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Language is a product of social, cultural interactions and links > thoughts of the interacting persons. Formation and evolution of > languages in the context of Indian sprachbund is an area inadequately > studied in linguistics. This group is intended to provide a forum for > multi-disciplinary discussions on how private language (pace > Wittgenstein) gets to become spoken language expressing thought, a > topic in neuro-science, psychology, religion, philology, lexicography, > writing systems and many other disciplines. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Namaskaram. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Kalyanaraman >
> 
> > --  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google  
> Groups "Foundation for Indian Scientific Heritage" group.  
> To post to this group, send email to  
> [foundation-for-india...@googlegroups.com]()  
> To unsubscribe from this group, send email to  
> [foundation-for-indian-scie...@googlegroups.com]()  
> For more options, visit this group at  
> <http://groups.google.co.in/group/foundation-for-indian-scientific-heritage?hl=en?hl=en-GB>  
> HERITAGE AWARENESS MAKES AN ENLIGHTENED CITIZEN.

  

