+++
title = "006 Arun"

+++
[[Arun	2011-01-04, 09:04:55 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/4IqxlNGNvEw)]]



We talk of Sanskrit and Tamila as world languages-then the languages  
within India itself must be linked to each other due to close  
proximity. In stead of learning from Caldwel etc, we must see what is  
written in our own texts and check whether its effect still exits.  
Original lipi was Brahmi with 63 or 64 Varnas. It had hrasva, dirgha  
and pluta forms of vowels, which still exist in Telugu and Kannada.  
There are two types of 'la' in these which are not used in north.  
Devanagari was created by Indra with help of Vayu and is still current  
from east (region of Indra) to north-west (region of Vayu or marut)  
India. This lacks some letters, so words change their forms and  
meanings.E.g. Kolar (deep mine of Karnataka) becomes Kodar (deep  
digging) in north India. Tamil was meant to be a world language  
created by Karttikeya who had to capture Krauncha Dvipa (north America-  
Patala in natural division. He shortened it by merging first 4 letters  
of sparsha-letters in 1 symbol. Separate points are Brahma, their  
merging by Suveda or sveda is called Subrahma (Gopatha Brahmana, purva  
1/1). Creator of such script is Subrahma. Its grammar was written by  
Agastya who had also gone far in ocean. Its effect is seen in same  
Maori language and culture existing in whole of Pacific ocean.  
Capturing Pacific is a must for attacking north America by Karttikeya.  
Maori word itself might be related to Mayura-vehicle or navy of  
Karttikeya. When effects of all 3 traditions exist, there is no ground  
to discard the descriptions.  
Theoretically, there are 6 Darshana and 6 Darsha-Vak (script)-based on  
6 fold explanation of Universe. Seventh could by unwritten symbols  
indicated by 'Vanechara'. I have explained 6 fold structure of Scripts  
in my article 'Vedic Origin and classification of scripts' on website -  
wwww.scribd/Arunupadhyay.  
  
On Dec 30 2010, 9:21am, iragavarapu narasimhacharya  

î—“

