+++
title = "000 R. N. iyengar"

+++
[[R. N. iyengar	2018-11-14, 13:44:00 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/l-oQvS6xBJ0)]]



Recently there have been discussions on the above topic. I like to present my views:

  

There must have been only one Purāṇa in the Vedic period that got multiplied later into 3 and then 18 and even more.In the Vedic texts reference to Purāṇa occurs both in singular and in plural. In any case a Purāṇa was recited in the Vedic Sattra rituals. In the absence of an unbroken tradition of the Vedic-purāṇa now we can only compare and contrast the vulgate texts to arrive at some plausible answers. Pargiter’s view was questioned by Lakshmana Rao in “South Indian Researches” 1919 as quoted by E.W.Clarke in JAOS 1923. (PFA). The JRAS article of Freidriches (1876) available at [archive.org](http://archive.org) makes it abundantly clear that the original Brahmāṇḍa Purāṇa (BP) is still preserved in Bali island which still follows Hinduism although, now it is part of Indonesia. From what little I could follow from the JRAS article the priests of (Before Indonesian influence) Bali considered BP (the only purāṇa known in Bali) as nearest to the Vedas.



My own studies of the Purāṇas from the point of view of historical development of astronomy and other physical sciences (Floods, Earthquakes etc) shows that the Ṛgvedic number of Viśvedevas and the concept of Somapāna are coherently described in the BP and BP only, among all the available purāṇa texts. The situation is similar regarding the Vedic North Polar constellation Śiśumāra (modern Draco) of the Taittirīya Āraṇyaka also. BP proposes Dhruva-meru centric astronomy systematically whereas the vulgate Vāyu (Nag Publn.) is not complete, though it remembers the ancient sky picture. Viṣṇu Purāṇa also remembers Śiśumāra but as an embellished legend about Dhruva. But the lunar long count number 3339 of the Ṛgveda which is the science behind the Somapāna and the so called 18-year *Saros* cycle of eclipses (attributed wrongly to Chaldeans) is either missing (Vāyu) or altered (Viṣṇu) without any basis. This comment is true for the Linga Purāṇa also. Nevertheless the above four Purāṇas and the Skandha, still have quite a bit of ancient historical information. While on the topic I have the following requests to make:



1) Retrieval and reconstruction of Purāṇic astronomy as it existed before the advent of Siddhāntic texts is of interest to us at CAHC. Please let me know if critical edition of Brahmāṇḍa is available or in progress somewhere.

2) *South Indian Researches* is available at Archive only for 1918. Can someone help me in tracing the article of L. Rao cited above?

3) H. Hinzler, *Balinese palm-leaf manuscripts* (Manuscripts of Indonesia) 149 (1993), mentions about a manuscript of Brahmāṇḍa No. Or 3730 stored in the Leiden Univ. Library. Is any publication or transcription of this available in the open Indology literature?



Thanks

RN Iyengar

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

