+++
title = "000 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2016-04-02, 03:17:59 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/nVrb0C85oR4)]]



April 1, 2016



Respected scholars, Namaskar!



I enjoyed reading scholarly discussionom mantras, aayurveda and jyotis'a.



In the past on BVP scholars expressed their views on Aayurveda, Jyotis'a and Vedantabeing connected with each other.



We all need medicine because we all get sick in our life. We need doctor and drugs to cure us. So My question is -How the connection among Aayurveda, Jyotis'a and Vedanta translate in curing the patient sufferring from a particular disease, say ditheria or aids or Cancer?



Indian science of Aayurveda has many positive points. Many remedies based on herbal medicine work and people have experience their curing effects.



In my opinion science of medicine is one thing and Vedanta (Brahman Satyam, Jagat Mithya) is altogether different thing and horoscope of the patient is third thing. Different astrologic systems and their practitioners do not agree with each other.



Behind allopathic medicine and drugs there is science of Chemistry, Botany, Pharmacy, Biochemistry and certain principles are tested experimentally and accepted as working under all circumstances. What settled principles are used in connecting Aayurveda, Jyotis'a and Vedanta? Please enlighten us so we grow in our knowledge with you. Thanks. N.R.Joshi

  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**Places You'll See**  
38 Stunning Photos of Norwegian's Biggest, Baddest Cruise Ship  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/56feec669bccb6c661edcst04vuc)<http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/56feec669bccb6c661edcst04vuc>

