+++
title = "006 Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)	2016-04-03, 08:47:45 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/nVrb0C85oR4)]]



Namaste Patuari and Joshi ji



This is about the question on interconnectedness and in-connectedness of
three disciplines on which Sri Nagaraj Paturi responds to Sri N R Joshi . The original question reads: \< What settled principles are used in connecting Aayurveda, Jyotis'a and Vedanta? >.



The settled principle is called ‘ Dukha – Pareekshaa paddhati and
Chikitsaa –Parihaara Anushaasanam’ : Diagnostic Analytics of Suffering and Methods for remedy, managing and dissolving all suffering’.

This understanding is spread all over the deliberations in all three disciplines; stated upfront and can be understood by traditional Yoga way of understanding Samskruth words coupled with live practices.



This issue is deeply related and opens up another battle front to be addressed in ‘The Battle for Sanskrit’ and importance of restoring ‘Yoga way of learning-using Samskrutham’ which comes as a part of ‘Vedic Linguistics’ (Traditional name: Vedanga Vyakarana Vak-Yoga Shaastra Paddhati).



I am sharing my view on this thread, indented in the post, as it is deeply related to the distorted and diluted teaching-practice and trends of three disciplines : Ayurveda, Jyotisha and Vedanta in current studies in many universities and with several practitioners. The closing thought I propose to contemplate is this: Beyond raising questions and placing wish-lists, when are resources going to be mobilized to show positive commitment and action in time-lines in this ‘ Tradition survival and surveillance debates? ? Will the Home team act OR allow Global players to gallop and swallow the Home team?



The big picture for all three disciplines ‘ Ayurveda- Jyotisha-Vedanta’
is that they are integrated offshoots and branches of Vedic- Yoga practices for ‘Human Welfare’. By design, they are to work together to deliver their goal for ‘alleviation of suffering at all levels of Body, Mind and Jeeva’. This is the ‘Viniyoga of Samskruth’: The practical application of Samskruth in profession with a professionalism beyond ‘ classical language scholarship’. ( My friend Dr. Yadu Moharir keeps stressing on this point). This ‘ Prime Vision and directive, the root connection of the three disciplines above with Yoga’ is messed up due to inept translations and inaccurate alignment of ‘ Vedic Total Health care’ in to the Abrahamic Theological frame of ‘ Sin Suffering Salvation’. The Vedic model of Total Health Care covers three aspects
‘Paapa naasha – Dukha abhighaata –Moksha Praapti - jijnyasa’ . The outcome of this deliberation is ‘Yoga practices that connect and permeate all three disciplines above’. This is the in- and integral connection of three disciplines. This understanding can be gleaned from the analysis of the Samskruth words : ‘Ayurveda as ‘Ayur-Yoga -Shaastra’; The use of Jyotisha for ‘Ayurdaaya nirnaya’ (12^(th) house) ; the use of Vedanta for Moksha as sarva dukha nivrutti’ .



Here below are my additional inputs :

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^



**BVK Sastry ( on )** :



------------------------



**From:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() \[mailto:[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\] **On Behalf Of** Nagaraj Paturi  
**Sent:** Saturday, 02 April, 2016 12:02 AM  
**To:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Aurveda, Jyotis'a and Vedanta



Dear Dr Joshi,



Please provide links to the BVP threads where it was meantioned that (a) Ayurveda is connected to Vedanta (b)Jyotisha is connected to Vedanta (c) Ayurveda, Jyotisha and Vedanta are connected to each other. Jyotishaand Ayurveda are never viewed as connected to each other.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^



**BVK Sastry ( on Jyotisha and Ayur-veda connection )** : The disciplines are in connected and interdependent to deliver their goals.
The training of Ayurveda Vaidya and Vaidya-practice, as per source texts demands that Vaidya should use the inputs from ‘Jyotisha’ to make diagnostics of the disease. Jyotisha is a ‘ Pareekshaa and Parihaara Chikitsaa Shaastra in case disease source is traced to Daiva’.



 It is a pity that post independence Indian design of Ayur-veda education leading to \< BAMS course structure> designed to be parallel / equivalent (? ) in terms of colonial model social status and greed for money earning, did most unpardonable things to tradition .



First, was the sacrifice of the ‘Veda (Sacred knowledge) and Ayush (Life-longevity- rejuvenation) ’ studies part of Ayur-veda. These got substituted by ‘reductionist model medicine- pill prescriptions for pain relief medication’. This approach destroyed the Spirituality and
Theory base of the discipline.



Second. Ayurveda- training education and practice gave up the ‘Paninian Sanskrit studies’ and voluntarily embraced the ‘ PIE linguistics model of Sanskrit studies, coming with Abrahamic Theology’. This adaption destroyed the base of text and language of Ayur-veda as a Vedic discipline. 



Third and most critical : A blind eye was turned to upgrade and catch up developments in modern medical science for investigation, diagnostics, pharma-practices; the failure to understand ‘Why antibiotic’ as a ‘Audhadha –Dravya’ was necessary to treat ‘ jvara’?!
This was a failure to vision and deliver the ‘ Primary responsibility of a Vaidya Training and efficacious practice’. The key guidance is : ‘Rogaarthasya Prashanmanam, Swasthasya Swaasthya rakshanam’ ( = Pain Alleviation is first priority for the patient; Securing the Health intact is the priority for all others ) was forgotten; the over reliance on ‘ mantra and jyotisha’ by Ayurveda was a result of ‘
Failure to properly identify the cause of suffering using right diagnostics and tools and then prescribe he right part of ‘ aushadha –mantra combination ‘ as chikitsaa for disease by Vaidya’.



The combined result of all this is ‘ Ayur-veda –Atharva Veda related
sacred healing mantra given by Dhanvantari ’ became a ‘ Praise, Prayer, lip sympathy and faith –practice to the founder of Green Medicine system’. The ‘Pranacharya’ system of ‘ Ayur-veda-Vaidya as a Higher Energy and Life giving medicine provider’ just got murdered in the hands of ‘Ayur-Veda education proponents for their own preference to be aligned with the ‘White-mans medical practices’. Which part and parcel of Ayur-veda educationists in India were responsible for this would be an interesting investigation to see and write an illuminating paper titled ‘ The Death of Ayur-veda’ like ‘ The Death of Sanskrit’.



------------------------



But there isa section of phalitajyotisha that deals with the astrology of health. There could be health practitioners who combine their astrology of health with their Ayurvedic practice. Majority of the Ayurvedic practitioners today, coming out with their degrees such as BAMS (parallel to MBBS) do not pay attention to astrology of health at all. Most of them do not know about it. Those who know do not believe in it.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^



**BVK Sastry ( on Phala jyotisha )** : The mistake that happened with Ayurveda happened with Vedanga Jyotisha also. Phala-Jyotisha is for ‘Muhurtha :Auspicious Time determination for Dharma Shaastra’. These teams had no business to meddle with ‘ Jyotisha as Pareekshaa –Pariahara Shaastra stream of Ayurveda’. Ayurveda gave up use of ‘Jytosiha as Dukha pareekshaa Shaastra and Parihara Shaastra ( if solution is in Daiva vyapashraya)’. And the gap was filled by ‘Phala-Jyotisha practitioners’! Which part and parcel of Vedanga –Jyotisha
educationists in India were responsible for this would be an interesting investigation to see and write an illuminating paper titled
‘ The Death of Jyotisha as a Pareekshaa and Parihara Shaastra’ like ‘ The Death of Sanskrit’. 

------------------------



I can not imagine anyone saying (a) Ayurveda is connected to Vedanta (b)Jyotisha is connected to Vedanta (c) Ayurveda, Jyotisha and Vedanta are connected to each other.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^



**BVK Sastry ( on Vedanta )** : When Ayur-veda gave up its alliance, affiliation and allegiance to Veda, When Vedanga-Jyotisha gave up its alliance, affiliation and allegiance to Vedanga, the Vedanta schools were left with no choice to be content getting labeled as Philosophies isolated from Theology and Ritual practical – advocated for the ‘ mendicants ( = yati) ‘ Moksha Shaastra’. It was driving out ‘Vedanta’ from practical health care discipline of Ayur-veda.



Which part and parcel of Veda/ Yoga –Vedanta educationists in India
were responsible for this would be an interesting investigation to see and write an illuminating paper titled ‘ The Death of Vedanta as ultimate Dukha-Pareekshaa and Parihara Shaastra’ like ‘ The Death of Sanskrit’. 



------------------------



Ayurveda is connected to Yoga. There is an established tradition of viewing Ayurveda, Yoga and VyaakaraNadars'ana as a mutually connected triad, as a group of 'cleansing' / depolluting sciences.

Ayurveda students are taught tarka for logical thinking. Just as allopathic medicine forms part of modern studies containing Botany, Chemistry etc. , Ayurveda makes part of classical Indian studies containing different vaidika dars'anas and other practical sciences of those times such as swarna vidyaa , lohavidyaa, rasavidyaa etc.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^



**BVK Sastry ( on Ayurveda connected to yoga )** : In the past, prior to 17^(th) century, Ayur-veda shifted its Philosophical affiliation from Vedanta to Samkhya to cover up ‘ The Ishwara –God issue’ as a part of Healing Health Philosophy. Probably Buddhist influences were responsible for this. The Samkhya Darshana part of explaining ‘Prakruti –evolutes’ has many similarities with Vedanta; and the properties of evolutes is explained in other Darshana Shaastras like Nyaya and Vaisheshika. It is drawing on details explained in other discipline; it is not switching affiliations of Darshana.



The other vidyas mentioned are advancement part of Ayurveda-Chemistry and Pharma in the areas of metallurgy and related.



------------------------



As long as traditional Sanskrit scholars are imagined to be a bunch of superstitious vestiges of the past, there shall be attempts to help Sanskrit scholarship out of such superstitions. 

My experience with traditional scholars is that most of them I know pity even those who believe in evil spirit possession etc. as paamarajana. But I never saw them arguing with those believers.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^



**BVK Sastry ( on Sanskrit scholars )** : Who is to take responsibility for ‘redefining the role of Sanskrit Scholars’ and clean their wares ? and decor? Crying foul and Vishaada –Yoga is not going to make the
Kurukshetra war win ! Not the books and journal articles. The ‘Mokshaarthi’ needs to become an ‘Artha-artee’ for Aarti-naashanam’ in the frame of Gita (7-16 )- chatur-vidha bhajante mam, janah sukrtino 'rjuna, arto jijnasur artharthi jnani ca bharatarsabha. 



------------------------



If the traditional scholar knows Ayur-veda,he treats the symptoms that those believers treat as evil spirit possession as some kind of a vaatadOsha or pittaprakopa, and helps them through traditional treatment without contradicting their belief.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^



**BVK Sastry ( if traditional scholar knows Ayur-Veda.. )** : There is lot more to be done in the current education system in universities and other places to redefine their ways to give the output of unified ‘ Scholar with unified vision and training as ‘Bahu Shrutah – Bahu Shaastrajnah- Bahu jana-desha-bhashaa -abhijnah ’ – whether it is ‘ unified knowledge of just traditional disciplines OR exposed to the inter-disciplinary study of traditional and modern disciplines –languages –writings and practices in 21 st century, global’. There is a long way to catch up !



------------------------



Regards,



Nagaraj





On Sat, Apr 2, 2016 at 3:16 AM, N.R.Joshi \<[gira...@juno.com]()\> wrote:

April 1, 2016



Respected scholars, Namaskar!



I enjoyed reading scholarly discussionom mantras, aayurveda and jyotis'a.



In the past on BVP scholars expressed their views on Aayurveda, Jyotis'a and Vedantabeing connected with each other.



We all need medicine because we all get sick in our life. We need doctor and drugs to cure us. So My question is -How the connection among Aayurveda, Jyotis'a and Vedanta translate in curing the patient sufferring from a particular disease, say ditheria or aids or Cancer?



Indian science of Aayurveda has many positive points. Many remedies based on herbal medicine work and people have experience their curing effects.



In my opinion science of medicine is one thing and Vedanta (Brahman Satyam, Jagat Mithya) is altogether different thing and horoscope of the patient is third thing. Different astrologic systems and their practitioners do not agree with each other.



Behind allopathic medicine and drugs there is science of Chemistry, Botany, Pharmacy, Biochemistry and certain principles are tested experimentally and accepted as working under all circumstances. What settled principles are used in connecting Aayurveda, Jyotis'a and Vedanta? Please enlighten us so we grow in our knowledge with you. Thanks. N.R.Joshi

  
  
  
--

Nagaraj Paturi



Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA.



Former Senior Professor of Cultural Studies



FLAME School of Communication and FLAME School ofLiberal Education,



(Pune, Maharashtra,INDIA)









