+++
title = "042 Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)	2016-04-06, 18:32:27 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/nVrb0C85oR4)]]



Namaste



Thanks **Professor Sadashiva Murthy garu** for the apt observation \< I guess the reason, for our hesitation to offer our knowledge as a whole or to assume or accept the role of becoming the editors of ancient Texts of Charaka and Susruta partly, may be that our Minds are still in western robes. > in the context of this ‘ Ayurveda-Jyotisha-Vedanta’
exchange of thoughts. Thanks to **Professor Paturi** for confirming \< Does 'Hindu' tradition look down upon the seekers of artha and kaama within the bounds of dharma and force all to seek only moksha? Is seeking moksha essential to be 'healthy'? Is it not enough to be bound by dharma in all the pursuits of artha and kaama , to be healthy? In other words, is moksha-seeking prescribed as essential for health? Or, is it shown that for a person who is already a moksha-seeker, health is helpful in his pursuit, Ayurveda helps him for that purpose? To say that Ayurveda as one of the three cleansing sciences helps the pursuit of moksha is different from saying that he sole purpose of Ayurveda is moksha only. .. .. 5. Once these cares are taken, the inter-textuality, inter-disciplinarity etc. of various Vaidika tradition, when discussed, does not harm the image of the ancient Indian S&T. …… Let me clarify that none of my posts in the related thread were against phalajyotisha.
\>



1. All these points deliberated here by scholars – Professor Paturi, Sadashiva Murhty, Korada, Prasad, RNI, and all – in responding to Vidwan N R Joshi’s question have high relevance to the contemporary topic :The Battle for Sanskrit, pioneered by Rajiv Malhotra.



 Here is my proposal for a ‘ Book and Conference Project’ – in late 2016/ Early 2017 from Yoga-Samskrutham University, with a team effort from many collaborating institutions. This is to consolidate the wisdom of the discussions here to lead to next step of actions in the kuru-kshetra ‘Battle for Sanskrit’. The consolidation of ‘Traditional thoughts spread over these thread of discussions ’can become ‘ a firm ground to trigger and develop building a strong response (Samskrutha Siddhanta = Vedic Brahmi Linguistics – Swadeshi Indology) to address the dangers of Sheldon Pollock- Charvaka.2 / attacks ( Paschima- Poorva Paksha = PIE / Abrahamic Linguistics ) . This is where Rajiv Malhotras writings and pioneering work is of immense value. And contributing scholars here can be resources for Siddhnata –response. Dr.Shatavadhnai Ganesh has already shot the first salvo! 





2. To ensure that these thoughts do not end up as ‘ loose-canon’ and ‘ in-house debate for fine tuning and ‘word –tinkering’ thoughts in cyber posts, lacking force and directive for any beneficial implementation’,

I propose the following for scholars deliberation.



 Taking note of all the points covered in these posts, it would be excellent to bring up a publication with a suggested title : ‘Restoring Samskrutham from Sanskrit **: Abrahamic (PIE)linguistics to
Paninian Brahmi linguistics: Shift in Vedic Language Learning Tools**’ and follow it up with a national /international conference.
The ‘ battle book’ needs to go the next level from ‘ Book- review’ to an ‘Action-platform facilitating implementation and create professions supporting good life and deliver social welfare’. The publisher and conference sponsor issue can be deliberated separately.



3. The proposed Book may have a structure made up by chapters as
invited articles, peer reviewed under the guidance of an editorial team. The conference plan may be sponsored by ‘Sanskrit lovers’ to deliberate on the specific action points from book-chapters. 



 The combination of book and chapters can help develop useful practical inputs to develop plans for revival of Samskrutham studies. This will benefit Sanskrit universities in particular ,And also many other allied institutions and disciplines of Veda, Jytoisha, Aaagama, Tantra, Ayurveda, Music, Languages and Vedanta. This may benefit development of discipline specific Samskruth-Thought spreading works useful for management, engineering and such other disciplines.



4. It is clear that there has been a derailment of Samskruth education post 17^(th) century under colonial influence; and this has lead to ‘ in –house break downs’ in ‘ Indian Sanskrit studies’ and distorted understanding of almost all disciplines of practical relevance to good life and development of Dharmic tradition and ‘ Purushartha pursuit as the Key for Welfare in India that was Mahabharath !



 The Purushartha –Pratyaksha disciplines related ‘Vedic education needing Samskruth Language in Swadeshi Indology and Brahmi Linguistics frame ’ in the areas of Ayurveda –Jyotisha ( integrated with Agama –Tantra :Both Hindu, Buddhist and Jaina texts and practices) need to regain their lost ‘Spiritual Ethical base and basics’. In this respect, Vedanta education needs to emerge as the Social Transformation tool with a spiritual base , from its current ‘ jailed status’ as ‘ Department of Indian philosophy’! 



**Please write to me OFF THE FORUM for any further Proposal and Action plans.**



Regards

BVK Sastry



