+++
title = "000 Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma"

+++
[[Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma	2010-06-18, 08:19:25 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/Se07JoIJkG0)]]



**हरि: ॐ**

**नमस्ते।**

**History, Archaeology and Anthropology can be suppressed by vested interests. The following website attempts to crack the shells of vested interests and highlight the challenging contents of Puranas, Itihasas and Hindu historical literature.**

**<http://www.veda.harekrsna.cz/encyclopedia/purantime.htm>**

**  
**

**  
**

**Abstract**

The time concept of modern archaeology, and modern anthropology in general, resembles the general cosmological-historical time concept of Europe's Judaeo-Christian culture. Differing from the cyclical cosmological-historical time concepts of the early Greeks in Europe, and the Indians and others in Asia, the Judaeo- Christian cosmological-historical time concept is linear and progressive. Modern archaeology also shares with Judaeo-Christian theology the idea that humans appear after the other major species. The author subjectively positions himself within the Vaishnava Hindu worldview, and from this perspective offers a radical critique of modern generalisations about human origins and antiquity. Hindu historical literature, particularly the Puranas and Ithihasas, place human existence in the context of repeating time cycles called yugas and kalpas, lasting hundreds of millions of years. During this entire time, according to the Puranic accounts, humans coexisted with creatures in some ways resembling the earlier tool-making hominids of modern evolutionary accounts. If one were to take the Puranic record as objectively true, and also take into account the generally admitted imperfection and complexity of the archaeological and anthropological record, one could make the following prediction. The strata of the earth, extending back hundreds of millions of years, should yield a bewildering mixture of hominid bones, some anatomically modern human and some not, as well as a similarly bewildering variety of artefacts, some displaying a high level of artistry and others not. Given the linear progressivist preconceptions of generations of archaeologists and anthropologists, one could also predict that this mixture of bones and artefacts would be edited to conform to their deeply rooted linear-progressive time concepts. A careful study of the archaeological record, and the history of archaeology itself, broadly confirms these two predictions. Linear-progressivist time concepts thus pose a substantial barrier to truly objective evaluation of the archaeological record and to rational theory building in the area of human origins and antiquity.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

प्रणाम:  
  
--  
Aangirasa/Dr.S.Ramakrishna Sharma. M.A.,Ph.D.(Eng.Lit.),Ph.D.(Sanskrit.).  

