+++
title = "013 Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)	2016-03-12, 22:44:26 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/eIIxswWxRQ0)]]



Namaste



1. Here is a ‘post and an issue’ carrying a deep connection with theme ‘The Battle FOR SANSKRIT’ made iconic by debates featuring ‘ Sheldon Pollok’ as iconic focus. The impact area also covers ‘Translation of Classics’. I am not making any direct pointer and line-verse specific references to Sheldon Pollok’s writing here; but
the basic issue and its connection can be transparently seen. 



 To see the deep impact of traditional schools having
ignored the errors of translations overlooking the nuances of Samskruth language, related to Gruhya sutras, please explore the Pre- Sheldon Pollock resources from Hermann Oldenberg (1886) and translation of
four Grihya Sutras, namely Sankhyayana-Grihya-sutra, Asvalayana-Grihya-sutra, Paraskara Grihya-sutra and Khadia :
<http://hinduwebsite.com/sacredscripts/hinduism/grihya/index.asp> ; <http://hinduwebsite.com/sacredscripts/hinduism/grihya/asva.asp> ;



2. **What is this post about** ? : - The post is about the significant
use of singular / dual number affix on the word ‘Kalasha (= pot)’ in the statement prescribing a part of instruction related to the ritual Punyaha, in each Veda.

 What is Punyaha ? : Punyaha is a technical ritual, where one or more water pots are placed, and after chanting specific veda mantras, the water is sprinkled to sanctify the surrounding and performer. The sacred text (Gruhya stura) prescribing the action uses the word ‘ kalashayoh’ ( = two pots). In practice, as
seen, there is only one ‘ pot’. So why did the instruction in the source text carrying ‘dual number’? 



 What are Grihya Sutras?: The Grihya Sutras are sacred Hindu texts containing information regarding Vedic domestic rites and rituals meant for the householders . Gruhya sutra guidance is coming from the historical past way before the beginning of the current era. ( Apastambah Gruhay sutra -500 BCE) . These come as a part of elaborate instructions along with Kalpa Sutras, Dharma Shastras, Srauta Sutras – All written in Samskruth language. These are used for getting guidance on how to practice vedic ritual in a veda specific way.



 What is the question ? : Why ‘dual number’ is mentioned in grihya sutra, when in practice only one pot is used ? The prescribing sentence must be singular 



 Response from the professor: In the PUNYAHA practicum, which is Veda /Sutra specific, there are variations. \< In the bodhayana tradition there are two kalashas. One remains on the vedi, and the other is held. (कारिका -- "न चालयेद्दक्षिणस्थमुत्तरस्थं तु चालयेत्"). The brahmana holding the chala kalasha is the prachodaka for the punyahavachana (प्रयोगमाला -- "कलशधारको ब्राह्मणान् पुण्याहं वाचयेत्") > In the Bodhayana Sutra under Yajurveda , the prescription is for one pot. There is also a PRACTICUM of Punyaha where Three pots are used \< अस्माकं संप्रदाये त्रयः कलशाः उपस्थाप्यन्ते । \>.





3**. And Why is this observation significant** ? The scholarly post brings out the ‘ PRECISION OF SANSKRIT EXPRESSION’
which has shaped the uniqueness and continuity of PUNYAHA LIVE PRACTICE ove three millennia , in specific Veda- lineage and a standard of SAMPRADYAA. 



 The debate is on the inflexion of Singular or dual number as a grammar nuance on Samskruth Word ‘ Kalasha’ in the ‘Chants of Punyaha Mantras’ . Punyaha Mantras are an integral part of Vedic ritual and Samskaras, having a continuity of observance over three millennia at least with a current cultural flavor continuity . The finesse of the issue is comparable to the ‘ small crack that was on the surface of the Space shuttle Columbia’. The ‘ crack’ was insignificant for the purpose of Launch’ but resulted in devastation in ‘RENTRY’! Claiming the Shuttle and the people inside of it. Same way, ignoring
the finesse of the ‘Sanskrit Word-Grammar’ in the initial phase of Translation may not cause any challenge in the LAUNCH, but the cracks will be seen in the PRACTICUM Operation of Vedic ritual.



This is also a classic example for WHY ‘ Purohitas’ must be well trained in the nuances of SAMSKRTHAM , which often is missed either as ‘ insignificant issue’ or ‘ ‘Irrelevant issue’. 



**For those who do not understand the DEEP ISSUE and SERIOUS BREACH addressed in this specific debate**: Without a clarity of this backdrop, the ‘ DEEP AND CRITICAL issue of SAMSKRUTH LANGUAGE NUANCE ‘
in this post and response by Professor Korada falls flat! And TRANSLATIONS will never highlight this part ; and worse part, the CHALENGE OF TRAINING = VAIDIKA PUROHITA (= A VEDIC PRACTICING PROFESSIONAL OF RITUALS) ARMED WITH THE RIGHT SKILL SET FOR USE OF SAMSKRUTH LANGUAGE IN RITUAL , especially as a RESPONSIBILITY in the VEDIC GURUKULAS will be totally lost ! 



**a-1) What is Punyaha ? in relation to Vedas?** The performance of VAIDIKA KARMA (VEDIC RITUALS) have an ‘ integral component of performance called ‘PUNYAHA’ ( - literally meaning a Sacred – Day, A ritual which transforms the given day to be an auspicious and sacred
one , suitable for for the performance of the subsequent parts of the event’.



 PUNYAHA deploys several VEDIC MANTRAS drawn from different Vedas. The specific mix of Mantras varies according to ones belongingness to a VEDA SHAKHAA and the family- SAMPRADYA.



 PUNYAHA is a part of almost all SAMSKARAS, prescribed in DHARMA-SHAASTRA ; A Common prescription for all practitioners of Four Vedas ; the specifics of doing PUNYAHA according to each Veda is different; the details of doing PUNYAHA by adherents of EACH VEDA is given by GRUHYA SUTRA KARAS.



 In Practice, PUNYAHA is used right from the most simple ‘Satyanarayana Puja’, through the mid range of ‘ UPA-NAYANA-VIVAHA’ to the most complex ‘VEDIC YAJNAS’.



 Technically PUNYAHA speaks about the involved participation of FOUR LEARNED BRAHMANAS who understand the performance, Bless the participant, Set the Goals and Standards answering ‘WHY’ of the Ritual and ‘Guidelines of SANATNA DHARMA’ in the most simple one liners for the benefit of educating the participants and audience. The entire discourse of blessings covering more than THIRTY – ASHEERVACHANAMS – (benedictory blessings) is the condensed message of HOW ONE HAS TO LEAD DHARMIC LIFE and STNADARDS OF DHARMA, HERE AND NOW, for a Good, prosperous and Peaceful Living. 



a-2**) PUNYAHA in REAL PRACTICE –TODAY** : In real practice, complying to the continuation of the ‘SAMPRADAYAS’ of each Veda-Shaakha, the ‘ traditional practitioner’ requests the ‘ Purohita /Acharya’ to perform the ritual, ; and PUNAYAHA is a part of it.

What this scenario transforms in practice is a sequence of ritual steps and performances, specific items and chant of prescribed /Mantras.



 When the ‘ Customer of the Ritual ( = Yajamana) does not know the technicality of their own ‘ OWN VEDIC IDENTITY’,

AND 

the ‘VEDIC TRADITIONAL PROFESIONAL = PUROHITA /ACHARYA IS NOT TRAINED to EXPLAIN THIS NUANCE TO THE PRACTITIONER )



THEN the debate on the fine print of ‘ SAMSKRUTH LANGAUGE NUANCES and FINESSEE’ of this debate becomes meaningless ! The ‘ACADEMIA will tend to treat such issue as a ‘ VARIANT REAIDNG’ and ‘ CULTURE SPECIFIC FAITH PRACTICE VARIATION’ ! The CUSTOMER grows more and more insensitive to the ‘ SACRED and MYSTIC ISSUES’ in the ritual; and the ‘ VEDIC HINDU PRIEST’ tends to attain the MECHANICAL PERFECTION OF RITUAL , Killing the SOUL and SPIRIT of the Prescription.



The ‘ academic pursuit of the question’ ends up as a meaningless issue of ‘Translation and Text variant interpretation as observed in practice’ . The real insight on – ‘ Why Sutrakaras prescribed something specific which is reflected through the language nuance of
Eka Vachana –Dvivachana : Kalasha / Kalshayoh - a singular or dual number affix on the given word ‘ Kalasha (pot) would be lost’ !

 This is the ‘DEATH OF TRADITION along with SANSKRIT – As The
LANGAUGE OF TRADITION . Enough reason to FIGHT THE BATTLE FOR SANSKRIT !



( The translation of ‘Purohita’ – A Vedic word, is indecently translated as ‘HINDU ; and proudly used in current ‘Hindu Society’ as a person ‘ PRACTICING VEDIC PROFESSION ?!)





The issue is complex and the explanations are as deep as a ‘ crack inside the skull!



Regards

BVK Sastry



