+++
title = "017 S.Subrahmanya"

+++
[[S.Subrahmanya	2015-07-10, 21:29:58 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/iri_QVgB_fQ)]]



1\. It is funny to see Indologists on "another" list who were spewing venom some years ago are now more softened up.

  Those who were smirking at samskrita bharati's speaking sanskrit movement some years ago, now deem that it is a

  good "first step" !. Maybe its because some samskritam depts in europe have started advertising 'speak samskritam' courses.

  

 it is important to give shove away this idea of a 'first step'.

 Speaking in Samskritam is a "continuous process" - not a first step - To speak in samksritam, means learning to think in samskritam,

 enabling continuous practice, giving a way to internalize a worldview, this is the way to get insights when studying a text. 

 Its probably because most academics lack this basic ability - we see such bad quality scholarship and complete inability of

 Indian academics to challenge eurocentrism.

  

 To create good samskritam teachers - we must teach samskritam students \*in samskritam\* first, not teach them 'about samskrit.

  

2\. About the Toomas posting - I think that the poster wanted to show that most of the Samskritam-academics in India have no courage to challenge

  eurocentrism. The Mittani language issue was quoted as an example. Read SS Mishra on this topic.

  The "Indology or Eurocentric" view is that Mittani is pre-vedic ( note: admin ).

  

3\. **A question:** why dont Samskritam universities develop a syllabus in Sanskritam to provide specific profession-related

 degrees - like in Law, Architecture, Political Science etc. Surely, samskritam has texts in these topics , so both the old

 texts and current views/technologies can be taught - to create new ideas. 

 why should samskritam universities only give out 'sanskrit BA/MA/PhD ' degrees ? Isnt this an old colonialist mindset ?

  

Regards,

S.Subrahmanya

> 
> >   
> > 

