+++
title = "000 VKG"

+++
[[VKG	2011-10-27, 06:48:45 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/uuUFuyqCbtM)]]



Pranaam  
  
This is to put forth the idea of a revered Spiritual leader about the  
role played by internet on environment and nature.  
  
While advocating viewing good videos including ShataShloki Ramayana  
<http://vimeo.com/puttugam/ssr> and other videos on the net frequently,  
he has suggested the possible impact as the ancillary benefit apart  
from the regular benefits of Character Development by knowing the  
virtues of Rama, Punya etc.  
  
This aroused some thoughts.  
Grossly, the connection between Internet and Natural Activities/  
Calamities does not seem to exist, even if so it might appear as very  
little and too insignificant.  
  
But, subtle inspection leads to different avenue.  
If the entire communication is done thru electro magnetic waves on  
certain radio frquencies, which permeat the planetary atmosphere,  
possibly/ probably parts of the stratosphere, it should impact that to  
some extent.  
  
Puraana stories, narrate the Gaana of Devarshi Naarada and other  
celestials singing the Narayana Naama all the time, especially during  
adversities all through the sky.  
  
Does this have connection? If powerful Radio Signals are impacting  
other communication systems of Aircrafts, jamming technology though  
limited, interrupts the smooth flow of signals; the encrypted data  
travelling thru waves should impact the behaviour of natural forces to  
extent. If so to what extent?  
  
More thoughts from traditional and contemporary wisdom - Welcome.  
Regards  
Vamshi Krishna Ghanapathi

