+++
title = "004 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2017-10-24, 14:50:18 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/sudLEtPxMq0)]]



Namaste



My humble submission on this thread is placed below. The question raised is a deep intricate issue. ( and complex issue makes the response post longer).



1. The focus of the post by Dr. Rukmani seems to be on understanding
\<exact way in which the text explains why even if "one does not accept approaching a guru as a vidhi, it still is a **niyamavidhi"** \>.



***Why and where to map the focus of the question to the line and page of traditional texts:*** The question maps to the challenge thrown by Arjuna in Gita 17-1.

In other words, this is another way of articulating the question asked by Arjuna at Gita : 17-1 : ye **sastra-vidhim utsrjya** yajante sraddhayanvitah, tesam nistha tu ka krsna,sattvam aho rajas tamah.



The word ‘Niyama-vidhi’ is to be split and understood as ‘**Niyama**’ = Rules and Regualtions **; Vidhi** = Practical customized guidance’ .



The Gita -word ‘Shastra-Vidhim utsrujya’ is constructed as ‘**Shastram utsrujya** (giving up Shaastra, taking no recourse to Shaastra as Pramana, Avaidika as naastika darshanas) and ‘**Vidhim utsrujya’** = (giving up the prescribed path, not accepting any ‘Guru’ as authority, Self- Guided and Self propelled, Independent thinkers, Free-lancers ! Hertic deconstruction challengers of tradition.



With this, the question \< one does not accept approaching a guru as a vidhi, it still is a niyamavidhi" \> maps to the section of traditional deliberations called – ‘ Niyama and Vidhi’ for those who have gone out of the preset ‘ niyamam (rules) , shastram (regulations), vidhim (practices) – utsrujya ( not accepting, rejecting, constructing the texts differently) ’.



The traditional text explains the ‘ Niyama –Vidhi’ in the Gita 17th chapter context; and presumes that a reader of the text has a prior knowledge of the ‘Sampradaya –Texts and Practices’. Therefore, the advanced text does not make any elaboration on this point.



Anand seems to have pointed to this part in the url provided which ends with the sloka: नियमः परिसङ्ख्या वा विध्यर्थोऽत्र भवेद्यतः। **अनात्मादर्शनेनैव**** परात्मानमुपास्महे**॥



***Where is the answer found***: The answer to this question comes from ‘Swaadhyaya’ Yoga- Samskrutham Technicality ( Vak-Yoga / Vangmayam Tapah technicality) explained in Gita 17-16 : anudvega-karaṁ vākyaṁ satyaṁ priya-hitaṁ cha yat, **svādhyāyābhyasanaṁ** chaiva vāṅ-mayaṁ tapa uchyate.



 In this context, the ‘ niyama vidhi’ construction for "one
who does not accept approaching a guru as a vidhi’ needs to be construed using Gita 17^(th) chapter guidance, using the
‘Guna-Pravrutti’.



***My reasoning to provide this line of explanation is placed below***:




 The response to the focused question has invoked the upanishadic quote explaining it as \< Guru-upasadana vidhi (tadvijnAnArthaM sa gurumevAbhigacchet) is meant for jnAna-prApti **through an intermediate cause**, Vedanta vichAra. > . Why is the part \<Srotriyam, brahma nishtam> excluded in the quote? These words show how the ‘ Guru-Niyama –Vidhi’ is designed as ‘ Niyama’ and Practiced as a ‘ vidhi’. It is not Faith belief practice and ‘ hold my feet firmly ; you will fly when I fly - logic’. Shraddhaa translated as ‘faith’ and mapped to the X-ian religion model of seminary practice of faith to sin-cleansing is the serious error.



 This technicality is further explained invoking the technical word ‘Swaadhyaaya’ : \< However, there could be an objection. If jnAna-prApti happens through Guru-upasadana and Vedanta vichAra, what is the use of the adhyayana vidhi **(svAdhyAyo adhyetavyaH**)? The reply is: the **adhyayana vidhi is meant for akShara grahaNa,** (learning the vedas) and is necessary. **Without the adhyayana vidhi, there could be a possibility of learning Vedas through likhita-pATha**. To rule out such possibilities, adhyayana vidhi is required. I hope this clarifies the position. \>



So, the conventional explanation of ‘Swadhyaya’ is presented as ‘adhyayana vidhi’, meant for ‘Akshara –grahana’ (= learning of Vedas) .
This model of ‘Swadhyaya –Vedaakshara-grahana vidhi’ is different from ‘study of veda as a scripted text, conceived as a scripture ( = **Script**ed (vulgate social historical )litera**ture**) = Likhita –Pathaka tradition of ‘Vedic Scholarship’ and ‘ parrot / frog like repetition as ‘uccharana –annoccharana paddhati’ ; The current mode of ‘Veda-Akshara-grahana’ shikshana = veda instruction methodology and pedagogy adhered to as ‘Gurukula Sampradaya’.



***Looking at the Tradition in Yoga-Samskrutham mode to explain Swadhyaya – Niyama Vidhi of Gita 17^(th) chapter***: Tradition has provided several layers of NIYAMA-VIDHIS’s in relation to SWADHYAYA, as Yoga-Samskrutha Sampradaya. 



 This technicality of ‘ Teaching VEDA-Samskrutham ( =Chandas) is the ‘Vak-Yoga Way’ for ‘Akshra –Brahma –Grahana’ , the ‘Yoga of
Swadhyaya’. ( Cf: Gita 8-3: **aksharam brahma paramam** swabhaavodhyaatmamuchyate bhootabhaavodbhavakaro visargah karma samjnitah // 8.3 //. ) This is the essence of ‘**Akshara –Abhyasa Niyama-Vidhi’** as initiation to the path of ‘Vak-Yoga’ as a ‘Yoga-Samskara’ before the ‘ Upanayana :Sacred thread ceremony, as a pre-screening and qualification for VEDAARAMABHANA at GURU- Kula’. 



This is where ‘Guru’ gets associated with the ‘ Niyama-Vidhi’.



***PROGRESSIVE UNDERSTANDING OF SWADHYAYA - AKSHARA ABHYASA- NIYAMA VIDHI* AND ‘GURU’**.:



 **Step 1**: The start up is ‘ aksharabhayasa’ as a samskara prior to Upanayana. This prepares the student for Veda- proper utterance through \< varna- swara –grahana dharana –uccharna –viniyoga> = Veda – Memorized repletion. There is almost a five to eight years time period of ‘ In-House Parental Supervised Family eco system training for the child’. This is also called family culture of child grooming. This is Vaidika –Shikshana. Here Parent is the First ‘Guru’ giving the Niyama and Vidhi. The current society calls it as ‘Home is the First School; Parents are First Guru’s’ to Teach the ‘ Language –Spirituality –Religion-Culture’.



 **Step 2:** The next progression of ‘akshara –abhyasa’ is to (Traivarnika) ‘ Upanayana’. Parent Transferring ‘Student’ to ‘ Gur-Kul’ Niyama Vidhi. Guru is the Teacher. Niyama and Vidhi is Guru kul Niayamas.



 This leads to ‘Veda –Abhyasa –Swadhyaya ’ as ‘ Varna- Akshara Raashi Grahana (Uccharana –anoocchaarana –grahana dahrana - pathana’ in the voiced tradition; for all social classes marked as ‘Chaaturvarnyam’ (Badly translated as Four social castes). The purpose
is for installation of Yoga-Samskrutham Swadhyaya Code in the Students brain, memory and psyche. This is grooming every student to be a ‘Yogi’ following the Yoga-Directive :Tasmat Yogi Bhava (Gita 6-46). 



 Here ‘Samhita’ is taught as the entire code along with Vedangas to be learnt by route memory. (Saanga –Shadanga Veda –adhyayana). This system isrebelliously pushed out of schools as ‘ taxing the students memory’ and ‘destroying the creativity and expression of child’. 



 Traditionally ‘ Veda -text learning’ at this stage is not combined with ‘ prayoga or Viniyoga’. This is to prepare the student for Veda-Shaastra adhayayana, the Professionals of Vedic tradition as Kula Vrutti. Here Karma yoga as Niyma Vidhi for ‘Akshara-Abhyasa’. The student needs to emerge as a ‘ Walking library of Texts in voice mode, ready to recall where needed and recite’.



 The progressive student graduates from Guru kul as a ‘Snaataka’ graduated from guru-kul, ready to branch off to Gruhastha
or Sannyasa pursuit. The drop out gets back to support professions and livelihood earning.



 If the ‘snaataka’ chooses to be a Gruhastha, then ‘ Aksharaabhyasa – Swadhyaya Niyama Vidhi ’ is through ‘ Karma Kanda/
Agni – Devataa – Aagama Yajna Karma Vidhi (Poorva –meemaamsaa)’. Then Guru is a Practicing Professional. Niyama and Vidhi is ‘ Internship = Shishya Vrutti = learning as in-house training’ . 



 If ‘snaataka’ chooses to be a Sannyasi/ Viraagi/ Vedantin’, then ‘ Aksharaabhyasa – Swadhyaya Niyama Vidhi ’ is through ‘ Brahma-Karma Kanda/ Agni – Devataa – Aagama Yajna Vidhi’ (Uttara Meemaamsaa). Then Guru is a Practicing ‘Yoga –Saadhaka’ and ‘Texts’.
Niyama and Vidhi is ‘ Deekshaa – Dhayana – Upaasanaa Vrata ‘ . ‘ Meditation and Contemplation, Scholarship is to discern the experiences in mediation. Scholarship is not for blogging and earning a livelihood’ . 





 If the ‘snaataka’ chooses to be a Professional – Acharya (Gruhastha or Yogi) then ‘ Aksharaabhyasa – Swadhyaya Niyama Vidhi’ is through ‘ Yoga Vidhi- Vishwa Karma Kaanda, also known as ‘Upa-Veda and Veanga –Vidyaa –Shaastra Sampradaya’= Professions of Vedic Traditions.
The ‘Vedic Yoga’ professions are from Ayurveda (Health care and Wellness Providers, Vaidyas), Dhanurveda ( Yajnika Brahmanas, Aagamikas) , Gandharva Veda (Sutra dhara), Vastu Veda ( Technologist) , Shaastracahryas – Vedanga Jyotishi (from Vedanga traditions). Here, Shaastra -Scholarship is for guarding tradition, customize applications from Shaastra for current society and with relevance, to discern and sift out the misconstructions, to keep the integrity of disciplines. Scholarship is for a profession for livelihood, protection, grooming next generation professionals, spiritual self-practice and advancement. Backward compatibility is made for principles and forward designs are for social needs.

 Here, Guru prepares the student for use of ‘Swadhyaya’ for Veda- Sukta – Mantra –Yajna –viniyoga = Veda – Karma Kanda from Poorva meemaamsaa (Yoga) shaastra. This continues through the Gruhastha ashrama. Here Samhitaa and Brahmanas guide. This is Vaidika-saamajika- Vrutti . The Niyama –Vidhi comes from Dharma –Shaastra and Artha Shaastras.



**Step 3: **The next progression of ‘akshara –abhyasa’ for
(Traivarnika) from ‘ Snaataka - Gruhasthas’ is through ‘ Mantra –Yoga-Deekshaa’. Self-Determinant Yoga-Seeker searching and accepting a ‘Guru’ and accepting the ‘ Niyama-Vidhi’ coming in a ‘ Guru-Sampradaya’.



 This prepares the student for Veda- Sukta Dhyana – Mantra – viniyoga = Veda – Upaasanaa Kanda from Yoga meemaamsaa (Yoga-Siddhi ) shaastra. This continues through the Gruhastha ashrama. Here Samhitaa and Brahmanas and aaranayakas are guide. This is Vaidika Guru- Vrutti . IF the student rejects ‘Guru’ and Niyama’ and ‘Vidhi’, the further guidance comes from Gita 17^(th) chapter and based on ‘Swabhava –Guna-Pravrutti’. Therefore, it is called ‘Yoga – Niyama –Vidhi’.



 This is where huge confusion and chaos is present and ‘Yogi title claimants carve out their brands, transforming ‘ ashrams - aalayas’ to ‘palaces and corporate brands and operations’. The teaching speaks of ‘ niyama vidhi’ is to reduce the ‘attachment’. The practical ends up as ‘ Niyama –Vidhi’ to strengthen the brand affiliation attachment and grow the brand empire.



**Step 4**: The next progression from stage-3 of ‘akshara –abhyasa’ starting from ‘Traivarnika –Snaataka’ through ‘Gruhya-Agni’
to ‘Akshara – Mantrokta Devataa Upaasanaa (Agni Devataa)’ progresses through ‘ Vana-prashta phase, where Aaraayakas guide to explore ‘ Prana-Agni/ Vaishvanara Agni form of Brahma-Agni ( Gita 4-24: brahmaarpanam brahma havir **brahmagnau bramhanaa hatam** \| brahmaiva tena gantavyam brahmakarmasamaadhinaa \|\| 24 \|\|’ . This is Vaidika Vanaprastha Pravurtti, where one starts seeing the horizon beyond ‘ Karma Kanda’ (- Pareekshya Karmachitaan lokaan … the beginning of Vairagya, the ‘Yoga’ prerequisite for Upanishads = Jnana Kanda / Brahma Kanda) .



**Step 5**: The next progression from ‘akshara –abhyasa’ through‘ Upanayana’ to ‘Gruhya-Agni’ is to ‘ Niragni / Sannyasa / Veeta-raaga –bhaya –krodhah = Munih’. This is the phase where ‘ Swadhyaya- Akshara- Abhyasa Niyama Vidhi ’ becomes the ‘ Pursuit of the Eternal, Unchanging – Satyam, Nityam, Nishkalam, Niranjanam, Paramam…..**Brahma-Aksharam** ( = Pranava Abhyasa). This is taught as ‘ Pranva –Upadesha’ by the ‘Guru’ using the foundation of ‘Veda –Samskara’ acquired earlier and matured through the phases of practice. The Guru is a ‘Hamsa Yogi’. The Niyama is ‘Sannyasa Deekshaa’. The vidhi is ‘Sannyasa Vidhi’.



If the student is NOT willing to accept the ‘Guru’, not willing to go by Niyama and practice subjecting self to a ‘vidhi’, the guidance still comes from Gita 17^(th) chapter. The Cosmic eco system takes care of such persons. The seeker is placed under the categorization of ‘aasura –nischaya’ (Gita 17 -5/6). The roadmap of journey following this path is explained in Gita 16^(th) chapter - 6 to 24.). The transaltions of ‘daivee and aasuree sampat’ as ‘ Wealth of Gods and Demons’ and mapping it to ‘Abrahamic Theology and misconstructed Purana – Mythology’ destroys the ‘Yoga –essence of Bhagavad Gita Chapter’. 



**Summing up**: There is a tremendous breakdown in understanding of ‘ Guru-Veda - Swadhaya – Niyama Vidhi’ part, which is coming from the ‘Yoga-Samskrutham’ part of the Vedic Texts and traditions ; nay, the ‘Technicality of Samskrutham as a language’ has created its own ‘Hand-feet head- heart tied Self- Locked situation’ through the
translations and ‘ ignoble modeling, which has distorted the Yoga of Swadhyaya –Adhyayana / Abhyasa – Niyama Vidhi’ . The Battle:Samskrutham is to address this aspect in a focused way. The challenges being:



(**Social Ritual Distortion**) Aksharabhyasa has ended up as script writing initiation for the visual shape of ‘ Om’ and ‘Sree Ganeshaya namha’, at Temple and moving on to next diversion as ‘ABCD’;



**( Family Eco Cultural system distortion**) The ‘ Voice Training and Culture’ is badly postponed in early child hood rites and later built on anglicized –regionalized pronunciation.



**( Traditional Yoga pedagogy distortion**) The next phase of ‘Aksharabhyasa’ as ‘Swadhyaya’ has lost its ‘Yoga’ part; misconstrued as ‘Scholar ship of Vedic Texts through translations with total disconnect from the life style adoption and practice –commitment (Veda –Vrata / Muni- Vrata / Deekshaa - Yama Niyama vidhi).



**( Yoga-Training system distortion**) The Yoga ends up as Gym work out on Yoga-Mat ( and not kusha –darbha aasana, shuchau desha pratishthapya .. Gita: 6-11/12).



**( Language of Yoga distortion**) ‘Samskrutham’ is taught and promoted as ‘ Historical Classical, Social Conversational language’
stripping off the ‘Daivee Vak’ aspect and ‘ Vangmayam Tapas-Yoga’ approach.



**( Swadhaya –Yoga –Niyama Vidhi distortion**) In this context, the ‘ niyama vidhi’ construction for "one who does not accept approaching a guru as a vidhi’ needs to be construed using Gita 17^(th) chapter guidance.



Thanks in advance for all those who can help to better clarify this situation.



Regards

BVK Sastry



