+++
title = "001 Arun"

+++
[[Arun	2010-10-05, 15:35:05 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/_4M9BgWA0Yk)]]



Some articles downloaded from Website about Nineve and Medes are  
attached in file. It is difficult to attach in group messages. There  
are 2 Medes indicated in various descriptins and ancient records of  
Assyria. Usually Medes meant land on north west of Persia-that too was  
in middle of 2 major powers. Another to east of Indus also was Medes  
which appears to be corruption of Madhya-desha. King Dilipa has een  
called Madhyama-lokapala in Raghuvamsha (2/26) There is a similar  
Prakrit word for Dushyanta in Abhigyana Shakuntalam drama. Authors of  
these two books are different Kalidasa as commented by Rajashekhara  
and Kalidasa himself. Dramatist was in time of Agnimitra and Poet was  
in court of Vikramaditya who wrote Jyotirvidabharana in 24 Vikrama  
samvat. That indicates use of Madhyadesh word in time of Agnimitra  
(1150 BC as per Puranas)- about 300 years before Assyrian kings. Till  
today, plain people are called Madhes in Nepal.  
612 BC time has been given in jewish encyclopedia and various related  
books. I do not know basis of this chronology. After it was linked  
with Era of Varahamihir by P.N. Mishra, I have seen certain western  
authors changing it to 609 BC. Varahamihir in Brihat-samhita (13/3)  
has indicated this era from 2526 Yudhishthira shaka starting from  
17-12-3139 BC which has been used by Al-bruni, Abulfazal etc. Only in  
1909, Sudhakar Dwiwedi in his Maha-siddhanta commentary changed  
Yudhisthira shaka itself to 653 Kali to make this shaka as Shalivahana  
shaka of 78 AD. But no other astronomer agreed with this revision.  
King of Delhi was Chahman as per geneology of Chauhan kings in 612 BC.  
This is not indicated in Bible. King in his 6th generation was  
Sudhanva who had issued order for setting up 4 Pithas of  
Shankaracharya in 483 BC. Role of Shankaracharya does not fit in 712  
BC-opposing Bauddhas was irrelevant then and there was no occasion of  
Shastrartha under rule of Mohammed Bin kasim in Sindh.  
Durga saptashati gives reference to 3 incarnations of Durga in kali  
era in chapter 11. One of them is Shakambhari related to Chahmans by  
their family tradition and orginal temple is at Timli in Shivalik  
hills near Saharanpur (may be Persian version of Shakambhari-Muslim  
rulers have mostly retained the meaning). But that is related to 100  
years famine which should occur at time of drying up of Sarasvati  
river and flooding of Hastinapur on banks of Ganga. Durga incarnation  
had killed Durgama Asura. There were many kings of Assyria, Sumeria  
named as Asur-it is difficult to tell which was called Durgama in  
India. But if it tallies with destruction of Assyria by eastern forces-  
it should be Assyrian king Assurbanipal (668-626).  
There is another point in assessment. India would have been under  
western threat when western powers were powerful-viz Assyria after 850  
BC till 612 BC. But India was definitely dominant when its 2  
astrologers gave certificate to Jesus that he would be great man.  
Similarly when Jesus took shelter in India, it must be more powerful  
and peaceful than west Asian states and sufficient to counter fear of  
Caesar. When Julius Caesar started his calender in 46 BC (History of  
Calender by CSIR), people did delay of 7 days from the intended day to  
make it tally with lunar month. It has been assumed that it was new  
moon, but it tallied with Vikrama samvat 10, Pausha Krishna Pratipada  
which is only calender in world starting with dark half. These 3  
incidents from west Asian history indicate influence of Vikramaditya  
till Arab even if he might not have ruled it directly. There are many  
more things-all cannot be written in message. But total situations in  
adjacent regions must match-Arun  

î—“

