+++
title = "002 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-07-18, 12:19:44 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/cbthNAM0jNc)]]



Namaste



I concur with the views expressed in the paragraphs below by Shrinivasa Varkhedi, Vice Chancellore, KKSU , Nagpur. It is time that a global stock of ‘Samskruth Studies’ be taken up for audit by the traditional schools who are the most hurt ( by design, targeting and organized efforts) in these cases – especially by ‘ international teams’ taking shelter under the umbrella of ‘ academic freedom’.



Every nation, Religion, Community has its unique way of respecting the language of their scriptures, sacred texts, rituals and practices and culture. Samskrutham happens to be this language for ancient India, the pride of ‘ Bharateeyas’. In this sense, ‘अस्मत्संस्कृतम् Our Sanskrit’
is an appropriate title for exploration, from the traditionalists and defend it ! If ‘अस्मत्’ as a sarvanama is taken out, or interpreted badly, what would the samkalpa - vakya ‘ aham karishye’ mean ? So, ‘asmat’ here is ‘asmaakam sarveshaam samskrutham’. And this can not be anything deviating from the Panini- Patanjali- Yaska tradition ( = Vyakarana – Yoga- Nirukti) tradition.



Who then needs to be alert and active in this effort ? It is the
traditional schools. And they should take it up ‘ proactive’ and issue by horns’ on a ‘ global scale’. As on date, it is already a three century old issue messy issue in the Herculean stables of academia !



Would this Battle: Sanskrit be motivated for ‘ gains of pecuniary nature, and profession’ ? It is a Yes and No. Those who have already benefitted by ‘ earlier training in tradition’ should do this as ‘ repayment of Tradition debt( vidyaa rina) for Panini ( Universal) and
not for limitations of profession ( jeevikaa vrutti at select institutions) ! For the new stock, the path should be paved to make their studies worthy enough to deserve a decent livelihood.



The way in which the deliberations of ‘अस्मत्संस्कृतम्’ at WSC seems to have gone on, as described in the mail below is offensive of tradition. So, it needs express of strong displeasure followed up with corrective actions. Poor interpretation of ‘ language’ spoils the philosophy and created ‘ linguistic politics’. India has been a victim of the ‘Sanskrit Language politic’ for several decades now.



I hope this will trigger action for achieving the right goals of Samskruth studies, as it was intended to and designed for.



Regards

BVK Sastry



--  



