+++
title = "018 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-07-20, 18:20:35 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/cbthNAM0jNc)]]



Namaste Bijoy Misra ji



** Can Paninian Sanskrit studies help to fix the 4.5 billion USD project – ‘ The Brain Initiative’ ? if yes, How? **

** This is what I would like to push further on your analysis of ‘Story of our Sanskrit’ !**

** This ‘Utility –Application Building’ ( Viniyoga , as Dr. Yadu keeps repeating on this forum) for Samskruth studies needs to be answered now.
And of course that was ‘Prof. Minkowski’s question also !**



1. Thanks for making three pointers to 



(a) the ‘new goal in Sanskrit Studies’ : To investigate and appreciate the construction of sound in human voice should be the new goal in Sanskrit studies.



(b) recognizing the challenges involved as : Though it is hard, it is as interesting asany field of advanced research. Its beauty lies in its cosmology.



(c ) Funding issue as \< I would invite new researchers to get into these areas of research. Funding will show up once we show promise of work.\> . 



2. Certainly this is needed to overcome the deficiencies in the current model of study – research –application and social outreach’ in Sanskrit studies, in the time segment of post colonial studies to \< asmat Samskrutham> . You have also identified ***five specific deficiencies*** that need to be addressed in your proposed model of Sanskrit research studies.



(1) Sanskrit is viewed as a dead language and as an archaeological tool to calibrate the past..

(2) There no understanding or respect to the Sanskrit sounds.Sanskrit is converted to another language for interpretation.

(3) This translation is inherently flawed because of faulty mapping and the built-in cultural bias.

(4) ***Back in India***, Sanskrit is used as a tool for religious practice. Because of the latter there is verbatim adherence leading to dogmatic conservatism. 

 The complexity of appreciating a world of sounds reduces to a world of mechanical words.

(5) That Sanskrit is the natural scientific expression of the human voice is lost in the slogans.

 It is not the examination of the past, but it is the
investigation that human voice is a biological evolution and has the capacity to render information in translating thoughts. 



3. What you are asking is precisely the model of ‘Samskruth studies’ as ‘ Yoga’ in ‘ Panini Sampradaya’ demanding ‘ Samskruth Language studies, where ‘ Vyakarana ( = grammar) is sandwiched and built
between the disciplines (i) the **foundation of Shikshaa **(= Human Voice Articulation ; and not script symbol of a specific historical period OR transliterated Romanized equivalent) ( ii)
**Connected to Nirukta** ( = to render information in translating thoughts) (iii) Flowing Words with rhythm ( **Chandas**).



 This system –pedagogy is given a traditional name ‘ **Vedanga Vyakarana Shikshana Sampradaya’**. And this is historically pre-Paninian ! and continued till ‘Bhattoji Deekshita’ ! at India, and as a part of ‘ Vedic Gurukul learning system’. The ‘ Masters- Instructors’ of this system –pedagogy still live in India, albeit numerically on finger count and past half- life age mark ( of at least 60 years) . They are neither interested in the \< asmat Samskrutham> or the \< university titles and
honors> ! **They just prefer to use ‘ Vyakarana’ for ‘Shabda- Brahma – Darshana / Sarasvati upaasanaa’ as ‘ Vak-Yoga’ for self-benefit.**



 If modern researchers really think that ‘Sanskrit’ holds a real potential worth a ‘funding’ , they need to proactively seek the Masters and learn the tradition. The ‘ invited lectures, semester long courses for scholarship’, YouTube- social media viral videos just create noise. These fail push right buttons to start the required research. The Battle: (Swadesi) Sanskrit would help to keep the subject in public awareness. But it can not give traction to research studies, which needs a different breed of scholars and investigators. The greater challenge is to clean up the mess that is floating globally around due to the five specific deficiencies identified by you.



 **In view of this, the first key issue to be addressed here is to answer : Why upgrade ‘Sanskrit- Research ’ of current period to ‘ Yoga-Samskrutham - Research’ of Paninian antiquity ? **

 How did Yoga-Samskrutham benefit the people of Bharath ; and how this pedagogic model received a set back from the ‘Colonial period’ when ‘Vedas became the records of Tribal Aryan History’ with a ‘ PIE model language called ‘Vedic Accented Sanskrit’ , about which ‘ even Panini was confused due to his own distancing from the historical users and had to use ‘chandasi bahulam’ several times as an exception rule to accommodate Vedic terms !



 Due to nurturing this ‘ inappropriate model of Sanskrit studies’, / and tolerating the damage, India that was Bharath has suffered for three centuries due to the five deficiencies listed above; and has spent millions of public tax amount and human years going the wrong way and blindly . The outcome now is Battle: (Swadesi) Sanskrit ! on ‘ Sanskrit as a Foreign language model ‘.



 One may load motives in seeking funding investment for this
research analysis and engagement ! That is emotional, cultural identity –pride issue.

 That would not invite ‘ Science funding’.

 Probably scholars-scientists like you should suggest whether this ‘Sanskrit studies’ would get funding under the 4.5 billion USD – DARPA -US program of ‘ Brain Initiative’ . Links to explore:



<https://www.darpa.mil/program/our-research/darpa-and-the-brain-initiative>



<https://www.braininitiative.nih.gov/?AspxAutoDetectCookieSupport=1>

[www.sciencemag.org/news/2014/06/45-billion-price-tag-brain-initiative](http://www.sciencemag.org/news/2014/06/45-billion-price-tag-brain-initiative)


<https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/why-the-human-brain-project-went-wrong-and-how-to-fix-it/>



And also invite the danger of ‘Handing over on silver platter, the Language of Vedas and Yoga to Corporate control and interests outside of Bharath’.



Regards

BVK Sastry







**From:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() \[mailto:[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\] **On Behalf Of** Bijoy Misra

  
**Sent:** Wednesday, 18 July, 2018 3:48 PM  
**To:** Bharatiya Vidvat parishad  

**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Fwd: Organisation of Public Forum in WSC "the story of our Sanskrit"



