+++
title = "020 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-07-21, 14:06:14 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/cbthNAM0jNc)]]



Namaste Misra ji

1. Thanks for recognizing the common thought and focus in this thread. 
The post is little long due to the quotes used to make specific pointers and error-roots.

 **The end question**** for contemplation would be**** all W- and Wh questions**** for Samskruth Researchers ; the questions being**  :

 (a) Who was at fault in derailing Language- pedagogy model of Samskruth studies  at India, Beyond India in the past and Current Post Independence India ? - A Post mortem analysis of History and Tradition !

 (b) Why ? - The Utility – Application benefit, Pride , Prejudice ? Current period jobs and livelihood, religion professions ?

 (c ) How to set right this error ? - Opportunity for Leader ship
and ‘ensure Safe –transmission of Safe-guarded recovered tradition ??!
For Next Generation benefit

 (d) Who should lead the effort through proactive investment funding ? - The challenge of Return on investment, Social benefit, Truth seeking, and Heritage Preservation as Community / Corporate / Scholars/ Social / National Responsibility.

****** In other words, who is the Guardian, Successor,****
inheriting** **Ben****e****ficiary of** **Paninian Language/s ? aka** **Samskrutham** **?** **Is it appropriate to treat Sanskrit as a** **‘** **classical language****’** **?** **Or is** **Samskruth**** an Universal**** Eternal** **Orphan****,**** floating out in Space as** **‘****Shabda-Brahma****’** **?**

**** **How may we all work to** **address** **to complete**** the incomplete work at Harvard****,** **for Samskrutham ?**** Can a life breath be made to the infinity program ?**

2. It is nothing unusual to expect Harvard to promote and stand by ‘ Greek and Latin Oratory’ even though these LANGUAGES are ‘ technically
classified as ‘ CLASSICAL ’ , meaning ‘ they are out of touch with society, no more in use as spoken language in current period. ( Yet , academics refrain from using the expression ‘ Dead’ with ‘ Greek and Latin, so freely used for ‘Sanskrit: the Classical Language of Hinduism and texts of Vedic tradition’ !  In fact, the entire Sanskrit community should be ever grateful for their scholarly publications with meticulous proofing and sustained interest in a land of different faith traditions and practices.

3. Coming to ‘ **Sanskrit: language Oratory and reading tradition of Sanskrit at Harvard**, I refrain from making any specific observation.
It is institutional prerogative and ‘ Professors Academic Freedom’ to frame the education program and instruction systems / standards; especially in Religion disciplines .

A look at the history of Sanskrit studies at Harvard reads as below (
[*http://static.fas.harvard.edu/registrar/ugrad_handbook/current/chapter3/sanskrit.html*](http://static.fas.harvard.edu/registrar/ugrad_handbook/current/chapter3/sanskrit.html) ):

**Suffice it to say : Harvard model and** **‘****Gurukul training model** **of****** **scholarship** **in Sanskrit studies ( and allied disciplines of Vedas and Shaastra****’****s) is at total variance since 1872 till date, for almost** **146 years ! and this has gone either unnoticed OR ( tolerated with closed eyes)** **globally****.****
T****his is a pretty long time , being an equivalent of at least seven** **or more** **generations ( taking 20 years approximate as active life of senior professors and researchers)** **to** **damagingly** **override** **Paninian** **language training system which survived** **unmodified for over three millennia at the minimum !**

 This is one of the reasons why native scholars do not gel well with Harvard research output in Sanskrit related disciplines ! Harvard set an anchor and a different trend for Sanskrit studies at rest of the universities and define – steer the course of ‘ SANSKRIT RESEARCH ? WHAT FOR ? HOW ? WHOSE BENEFIT ?’. Harvard received this model from Oxford , UK ([*https://swarajyamag.com/culture/missionaries-sanskrit-and-oxford-university-a-history*](https://swarajyamag.com/culture/missionaries-sanskrit-and-oxford-university-a-history) ). Historical investigation takes the issue for a post-mortem analysis mode.

  Gurukul based ‘Sanskrit : Language Modeling and Pedagogy’, is
anchored to Panini –Patanjali- Yaska and starts with ‘ LISTEN – REPEAT – READING WRITING – VOICED TEXT FIRST’. This is called the pedagogy of human succession-transmission memory training  through ‘ uccharana –anooccharana krama’ ( listen-repeat- retention) of learning, carrying the text in memory before getting to the analytics ( Dhaaranaa before vyaakhyaana)’. This ‘ Voice- Audition tradition ( Shruti- paramparaa) used in Gurukul was systematically destroyed by paving way for preferential adoption of Biblical ( Liturgical) Greek and ( Koene) Latin pedagogy model of ‘Scripted Text Studies and Translations
as authority’ for Sanskrit studies.

 **In short, SANSKRIT STUDIES HAVE GONE WRONG** **BY USE OF INAPPROPRIATE LANGUAGE MODELLING FOR OVER TWO CENTURIES ; THIS HAS BEEN TOLERATED GLOBALLY AND ESPECIALLY IN INDIA****.** **CONTRA, THE INAPPROPRIATE MODEL OF S****AN****SKRIT STUDIES IS PROMOTED RIGHT FROM EARLY SCHOOL LEVEL THROUGHOUT**** ALL LEVELS OF** **EDUCATION PROGRAMS** **( INCLUDING UNIVERSITY RESEARCH)** **PROGRAMS. WSC****** **‘****ASMAT SAMSKRUTHAM****’** **IS JUST ONE FRUIT OF T****OLERATING DECAY IN SAMSKRUTH STUDY PEDAGOGY****.**

 What is proposed by you to be the line of investigation for Sanskrit Research as ‘construction of sound in human voice’ with a connection to \< cosmology> was postulated long ago in the model of ‘ Vedangas’ by positioning Shikshaa ( Human Voice construction) and Jyotisha ( Cosmology – Astronomy- Astrology- Astro Sciences) as teamed disciplines with Vyakarana of Samskrutham. By calling ‘ Samskrutham’ as ‘Classical Language, on par with Greek and Latin’, the complete derailing in Sanskrit language education and pedagogy took place ! **And that struggle is still** **continuing** **in India,**** to**** seek****
government benefits to** **** **‘**** Sanskrit by tagging** **classical language**** status****’** **!**

 4. What then is a ‘Classical Language’ ? -( [*https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Classical_language*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Classical_language) )  with a question for contemplation : **Would Paninian language satisfy the definition of a** **‘** **classical la****nguage****’** **? How ?** **How appropriate is it to put Samskrutham** **(** **Paninian Lan****guage) on the same pedestal of Hebrew ?**

******** **QUOTE** **(Begin)** -  A classical language is a language with a literature that is classical. According to UC Berkeley linguist George L. Hart, "it should be ancient, it should be an independent tradition that arose mostly on its own, not as an offshoot of another tradition, and it must have a large and extremely rich body of ancient literature." **Classical languages are typically dead languages, or show a high degree of diglossia, as the spoken varieties of the language diverge further away from the classical written language over time.**

 In the context of traditional European classical studies, the "classical languages" refer to Greek and Latin, which were the literary languages of the Mediterranean world in classical antiquity.

**** **In terms of worldwide cultural importance, Edward Sapir in his book Language, would extend the list to include Chinese, Arabic, and Sanskrit:**

 When we realize that an educated Japanese can hardly frame a single literary sentence without the use of Chinese resources, that to this day Siamese and Burmese and Cambodgian bear the unmistakable imprint of the Sanskrit and Pali that came in with Hindu Buddhism centuries ago, or that whether we argue for or against the teaching of Latin and Greek \[in schools,\] our argument is sure to be studded with words that have come to us from Rome and Athens, we get some indication of what early Chinese culture and Buddhism, and classical Mediterranean civilization have meant in the world's history. There are just five languages that have had an overwhelming significance as carriers of culture. They are classical Chinese, Sanskrit, Arabic, Greek, and Latin. **In comparison with these, even such culturally important languages as Hebrew and French sink into a secondary position.**

 In this sense, a classical language is a language that has a broad influence over an extended period of time, **even after it is no longer a colloquial mother tongue in its original form**. If one language uses roots from another language to coin words (in the way that many European languages use Greek and Latin roots to devise new words such as "telephone", etc.), this is an indication that the second language is a classical language**.** **** **In comparison, living languages with a large sphere of influence are known as world languages.** -
******** **QUOTE** **( End).** 

  

5. Cha. Mu. Krishna Sastry’s Spoken Sanskrit was a ‘ language awareness creation movement’ which was the need of the time. It has done wonderfully well and achieved its goal. Now is the time to go to the next level.

6. On \< **We need some text that might have analyzed the depth of the sky in terms** **of speech sounds such that a blind can visualize the depth. In principle, it** **should be possible through our speech faculty, so is the thought.** \> we can deliberate on the specifics of this. The key is recourse to the Paninian model of ‘ Positioning VOICE learning before the SCRIPT’ :: Shikhsaa as the foundation of VYAKARANA, as listed in the Vedanga disciplines.

 Freewheeling in development of a teaching course here as a ‘quick fix’ solution by getting to one of the 72 shikshaa texts would not resolve the problem . Neither a straight jump to Panini Shikshaa.

 The course outline needs to integrate traditional listing of sounds, Indian system of teaching akshara-maalaa, recitation of poetry, and connect the entire program to ‘ Science basis drawn from collaborating disciplines like : Anatomy, Brain functioning, Biology, neuroscience and cognitive processes involved in Speech and Hearing, the human memory systems, the language- learning and usage, Linguistic memory .
The science part has to come from West. The Language and philosophy part will come from east. Then only the exploration of ‘rasa’ would be meaningful. The key to explore is the statement : ‘ The essence of Being (Purusha) is ‘Rasa’ ; raso vai saH; Purushasya Vak- rasah’. And all this to Vedic Chanting, Gita Reading, Ramayana Recitation, Mahabharata listening and Spoken Samskruth Conversation ending with ‘ Yoga-Samskrutham for Meditation’.

An interesting read at this point could be a Forthcoming book in 2020: "Strong AI : Understanding the roots of consciousness".

Please do let me know how we may all work together.



