+++
title = "000 Dr. Kishor Kumar Tripathy"

+++
[[Dr. Kishor Kumar Tripathy	2021-11-05, 11:58:07 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/PHMhlZuv4v0)]]



Respected All,  

Greetings from AuroBharati, Sri Aurobindo Society, Pondicherry.

Renaissance is the monthly e-journal of AuroBharati, the vertical of Sri Aurobindo Society focused on Indian Culture, highlighting numerous forms in which the eternal spirit of India is being reborn and renewed.

It is a space featuring inspiring articles, essays, stories, videos, reflections and accounts of India and her creative genius manifesting in various domains – spiritual, artistic, literary, philosophic, scientific, aesthetic.

Speaking of the vaster and deeper significance of a new rebirth of India, Sri Aurobindo wrote more than a hundred years ago:

“This Renaissance, this new birth in India,… must become a thing of immense importance both to herself and the world, to herself because of all that is meant for her in the recovery or the change of her time-old spirit and national ideals, to the world because of the possibilities involved in the rearising of a force that is in many respects unlike any other and its genius very different from the mentality and spirit that have hitherto governed the modern idea in mankind, although not so far away perhaps from that which is preparing to govern the future.” (CWSA, Vol. 20, p. 3)

Taking our inspiration from these words we will bring for our readers some thought-provoking ideas, some insightful voices, some fresh perspectives on diverse topics and issues concerning India – her past, present, but most importantly, her future.

One of the objectives of Renaissance e-journal is to bring to light selected writings of some of the early sadhaks and scholars of Integral Yoga and Sri Aurobindo’s and the Mother’s vision and work. The focus will be on those writings in particular which also have a connection with Indian spirit, culture, yoga, arts, literary tradition, society, aesthetics, etc. In every issue we hope to feature one or more selected writings which were published earlier in journals such as Sri Aurobindo Circle, Mother India and other such publications including compilations of talks and correspondences. The longer essays are presented in easy-to-access multiple parts. We hope that this effort will help the gems given to us by the early sadhaks of Integral Yoga reach to a whole new set of audience.

The journal may be accessed through the link:

<https://journal.aurobharati.in/about/>



With Regards,

Dr. Kishor Kumar Tripathy

Member Secretary,

AuroBharati, Sri Aurobindo Society, Pondicherry



