+++
title = "010 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2011-04-30, 21:37:21 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/ZfL2TS731Lg)]]



Namaste Prof. Bhat:

  

My favorite quotation is from Samartha Ramadas Swami, who in his "manaace shloka" (Advise to one's own mind).

  

avidyaaguNe.n maanavaa Umajenaa . bhrame.n cuukale.n hiita te.n aakaLenaa .  
pariixeviNe.n baa.ndhale.n dR^iDha naaNe . parii satya mithyaa ase koNa jaaNe.n .. manaaceshloka 143 ..  
  

Meaning (liberal) : It is only due to avidyaa (and/its locus) that one is unable to realize the truth. Due to delusion (bhrama) contribute to his inability to decide for his own good. All this is because he accepted the bogus currency as being valid. (Essentially, it is one's own responsibility to evaluate and arrive are one's own conclusions after evaluating throughly.)  

  

Having said all this, could it be that the incorrect interpretation of term shaddha be responsible for current pathetic state of affairs in India, that breeds so many moron swami's who cleverly market themselves as self-proclaimed Guru & Paramaha.msa and continue to plague NRI !?
Once having gained acceptance from the West, they get additional firmer foundation for further exploiting innocent Indian devotees at large through shruti "maa mekam sharaNavraja".  

  

Best regards,

  

Dr. Yadu  

  

  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**From:** hnbhat B.R. \<[hnbh...@gmail.com]()\>  
**To:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
**Sent:** Saturday, April 30, 2011 3:47 AM

  
**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Re: Makara Jyoti hoax.  





