+++
title = "000 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2014-03-26, 21:51:09 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/PCYBdtDYWcs)]]



Dr.Vishal,

Thanks for this information. The (Gotra) last name "Paraas'ar" is very common in Pushkar region. I have requested a few of my friends from Pushkar to search for the PGS. If some thing positive comes up I will keep you informed.  
Thanks

RNI  
On Sunday, March 23, 2014 5:09:44 AM UTC+5:30, Vishal Agarwal wrote:

> 
> >  style="color:#000;background-color:#fff;font-family:HelveticaNeue,Helvetica Neue,Helvetica,Arial,Lucida Grande,sans-serif;font-size:12pt"> >
> 
> > Parashara is an Upashakha of the Bashkala Rigvedins. I have heard that > a separate Parashara Grhyasutra manuscript (obtained from Pushkar) > exists, but I have not been able to find any information on it. Note > that the Calcutta RAS manuscript division does have anukramanis of > Bashkala Shakha attributed to Parashara, per the Manuscript catalog ed > by Harprasad Shastri, but they just lie in manuscripts (with a > commentary on them by Jagannatha). During my two trips to Kolkata , I > have unfortunately not had a chance to obtain access to them. >
> 
> > 
> > Regards, Vishal Agarwal >
> 
> > 
> >   
>   
> >  style="font-family:HelveticaNeue,Helvetica Neue,Helvetica,Arial,Lucida Grande,sans-serif;font-size:12pt"> >
>  style="font-family:HelveticaNeue,Helvetica Neue,Helvetica,Arial,Lucida Grande,sans-serif;font-size:12pt"> >
> 
> > On Monday, March 17, 2014 11:50 PM, Dr. T. Ganesan > \<gan...@ifpindia.org\> wrote:  
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >   
> Is it Parashara Grihya (पराशरगृह्य) or PAARASKARAGRIHYASUUTRA > (पारस्करगृह्यसूत्र )?  
> As far as it is known, it is only the latter.  
>   
>   
> Ganesan  
>   
> > 
> >   
> On 15-03-2014 14:16, rniyengar wrote:  
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > Dear scholars, > > > > 
> > > >   
> > > > 
> > > > In a news item on 8th June 2011 in The Hindu > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > >   
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > <http://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plan-to-bring-out-more-vedic-commentaries/article2086780.ece>  
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > >   
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > it was reported: > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Sri Sukla Yajurveda Vangmaya Prachara Samithi plans to bring out > > more commentaries on Vedic literature in its efforts to preserve and > > propagate texts that are becoming extinct. Parasara Grihya Sutras, > > Katyana Srauta Sutras, Sukla Yajurveda Pratisakhyam, and Asta > > Vikruti Lakshana are among them. At a discussion on Tuesday on > > ‘Kanva Satapatha Brahmanam' b... ... ...  
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > >   
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Is the Parashara Grihya now published? Can any one give me a link to > > this text? Mum.edu does not list this Sutra. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > >   
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Thanks > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > >   
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > RN Iyengar > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > -- >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > --  
> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
> ---  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com.  
> To post to this group, send email to bvpar...@googlegroups.com.  
> Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.  
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >   
>   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

--  
निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
---  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.  

