+++
title = "001 Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma"

+++
[[Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma	2010-09-16, 05:29:42 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/fukRdMxnbWQ)]]



Respected Scholars,

  
  
\>Is it not over exaggeration to declare that ancient cultures of every nook and corner of the world have their traces in Vedic mythology?  
  

What is "Vedic Mythology"? A name given by men who think that they think?  
A name given to something not understood the way it has got to be understood?  
  
Please go through the work done by Stephen Knapp at:  
  
<http://www.stephen-knapp.com/was_the_taj_mahal_a_vedic_temple.htm>  
<http://www.stephen-knapp.com/proof_of_vedic_culture%27s_global_existence.htm>  
"  

No matter what we may be in regard to our present religion, society, or country, we are all descendants of that ancient, global civilization. The Vedic tradition of India is the parent of humanity and the original ancestor of all religions. Through this book you will see:

 \* How Vedic knowledge was given to humanity by the Supreme.

 \* The history and traditional source of the *Vedas* and Vedic Aryan society.

 \* Who were the original Vedic Aryans. How Vedic society was a global influence and what shattered this once world-wide society.

 \* Many scientific discoveries over the past several centuries are only rediscoveries of what was already known in the Vedic literature.

 \* How the origins of world language and literature are found in India and Sanskrit. How Sanskrit faded from being a global language.

 \* The Vedic influence and proof of its ancient existence found in such countries as Britain, France, Russia, Greece, China, Japan, Egypt, and in areas of Scandinavia, the Middle East, Africa, and the Americas.

 \* The links between the Vedic and other ancient cultures, such as the Sumerians, Persians, Egyptians, Romans, Greeks, etc.

 \* How Judaism, Christianity, Islam, and Buddhism were all influenced by the Vedic tradition and still contain many Vedic elements within them.

 \* How many of the western holy sites, churches, and mosques were once the sites of Vedic holy places and sacred shrines.

 \* Uncovering the truth of India's history: Powerful evidence that shows how many mosques and Muslim buildings were once opulent Vedic temples.

 \* The need to recognize the real history of the world, and to protect what is left of Vedic culture, the roots of humanity."

  
  

On Wed, Sep 15, 2010 at 10:51 AM, Jagannatha s \<[jgra...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> > Respected scholars, >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Some of the ideas/concepts of Socrates may have resemblance with those > of Upanishads’ discourses. So what? Does it mean that Socrates took > directly all the ideas from Upanishads? Is there any slightest proof > that he knew Sanskrit? If we will cram every culture in to Vedic > basket, it will become waste paper bin. Is it not over exaggeration to > declare that ancient cultures of every nook and corner of the world > have their traces in Vedic mythology? Why shall we not take the > resemblances as mere parallelism of ideas? There is an adage in > Sanskrit : संवादिन्यो मेधाविनां बुद्धयः।(Great men think alike)

> --  
> अथ चेत्त्वमिमं धर्म्यं संग्रामं न करिष्यसि।  
> ततः स्वधर्मं कीर्तिं च हित्वा पापमवाप्स्यसि।।  
> तस्मादुत्तिष्ठ कौन्तेय युद्धाय कृतनिश्चयः।  
> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  

  
  
  
--  
Aangirasa/Dr.S.Ramakrishna Sharma. M.A.,Ph.D.(Eng.Lit.),Ph.D.(Sanskrit.).  

