+++
title = "012 Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma"

+++
[[Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma	2010-09-21, 18:12:48 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/fukRdMxnbWQ)]]



अभिवन्द्य,  
Thank you so much, Sri Vinay Ji for the post.  
\>Hence, the power of memorization was far greater than the modern students who are  
not taught to maintain Brahmacharya.  
In fact that teaching was all comprehensive:  
आहारशुद्धौ सत्वषुद्धि:-सत्वशुद्धौ ध्रुवा स्मृति:-स्मृतिप्रतिष्ठायां -अद्ध्यात्मप्रसाद:-  
तत अद्ध्यात्मतत्वाधिगम: There is no short cut to this linkage!  
And regarding the Indus Script,  
\>Indus Script was Tantric and not Vedic, a script for Asuras.  
Same opinion was expressed recently by a scholar while chat-response.  
If the Vedas have three levels/layers of meanings, viz. adhyaatma,  
adhi-bhoota and adhi-daiva it is not impossible to decode any mantra  
at these three levels which,if, done successfully, would definitely unravel  
many useful and eco-friendly devices for the benefit of humanity.  
In this context, a scholar has posted a query regarding the meaning of  
सहस्रशीर्षा .  
Let us wait for some relevant response.  
Pranams.  
  
  
  

On Mon, Sep 20, 2010 at 6:38 PM, Vinay Jha \<[vina...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> Sourav Ji's questions contain the answers themselves.  
>   
> What is writing and why it is needed at all ? And what is Language?  
>   
> Language is spoken form, and writing is merely its symbolical  
> representation, often defective. The only language in the world > which  
> can be properly written down is Sanskrit, in which there is no  
> discrepancy between the Written and Spoken forms. This harmony > springs  
> from the inner grammatical and semantic perfection of this language.  
> Language is the means of communication among conscious beings. It  
> reflects our Consciousness, and perfection of a language implies  
> perfection of its Creator / Creators. Only divine agencies can > create  
> a perfect language, and there cannot be more than one perfect > language  
> for one specie of humans. Imperfect mortals cannot create a perfect  
> language, they can only deform language into defective demotic  
> speeches. The more we go into past of any language of the world, the  
> nearer we go towards its relations with Sanskrit. Only those > languages  
> prove problematic which lack ancient records for proper comparative  
> studies. Another handicap in Comparative Linguistics is the  
> incorrigible prejudice of Europeanists : all proofs of linguistic  
> history suggest Vedic origins of human languages, which is  
> unacceptable to those who have faith in man-made religions and are  
> therefore prejudiced towards Vedic religion.  
>   
> The very structure of Sanskrit language and functions of those  
> structural units shows a perfect alphabet already in existence. This  
> alphabet is perfectly in harmony with Dev Nagari. It is foolish to  
> suggest that alphbets and their grammatical descriptions existed > since  
> Vedic times and written language evolved later. The modern form of > Dev  
> Nagari Lipi is a later evolution, but a similar Lipi existed since  
> Time Immemorial. As the etymological meanings of  
> Lipi and Lekha suggest, these terms existed much earlier than we  
> think, and had limited uses than moderners make use of the written  
> forms. Lipi was for painting on walls or on ground, and Lekha was > for  
> inscribing on clay or stone or birch barks.  
>   
> Brahmacharya is essential for Memory according to ancients.  
> Brahmacharya was an essential condition for education. Hence, the  
> power of memorization was far greater than the modern students who > are  
> not taught to maintain Brahmacharya. Therefore, the demand for > written  
> language was absent.  
>   
> Indus Script was Tantric and not Vedic, a script for Asuras.  
>   
> -Vinay Jha  
> '================================= ====  
> > 
> >   
> On 9/17/10, Sourav Mukherjee \<[sour...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  
> \> The blogspot links Dr. Sharma provided are indeed very interesting. > English  
> \> word "committee"  
> > 
> > \> > comes\<<http://commonworldinheritage.blogspot.com/2010/04/commitee-samiti.html>\>from  
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > \> the Sanskrit "samiti" ! WOW, what an insight! Thanks to Dr. Sharma > for  
> \> sharing the links and KUDOS to Sri Sunil Srivastava for his work. > Some time  
> \> ago, i also had many interesting exchanges with Col Murty regarding > the  
> \> origins of many English words from Sanskrit and Telugu. >
> 
> > 

> 
> > 
> >   
> \>  
> \>\> Now do not tell me that Man only learned to speak 5000 BC when we > have  
> \> artifacts which are much older and indicate of advanced > civilizations. Check  
> \> out my "Hidden Archeology" posting."  
> \>  
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > \> While reading this a related question arose in my mind. When was > writing  
> \> discovered by people of the Indian subcontinent? Or did they feel > the need  
> \> to write at all? Did they prefer oral transmission (even while > being not  
> \> unfamiliar with writing)? When did they first think about recording > the  
> \> Sanskrit scriptures in writing? Why and when did the need arose? > What was  
> \> the first script used for writing Sanskrit? Who developed this > script?  
> \>  
> \> I will be grateful for answers or even opinions to any or all of > these  
> \> questions.  
> \>  
> \> regards,  
> \> Sourav >
> 
> > 

> 
> > 
> >   
> \>  
> \>  
> \> On Thu, Sep 16, 2010 at 5:40 PM, Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma \<  
> \> [d.ramak...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  
> \>  
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > \>\> \*शृण्वन्तु सर्वे अमृतस्य पुत्रा:, >
> 
> > 

> 
> > 
> >   
> \>\> "Common World Heritage", is a brain-child-concept of a proud > Bharatiya,  
> \>\> Sri Sunil Srivastava. His blogs are inspiring and interesting; > his  
> \>\> findings  
> \>\> are  
> \>\> indeed mind blowing.  
> \>\> About Sri Sunil Srivastava:  
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > \>\> \* >
> 
> > 

> 
> > 
> >   
> \>\>  
> \>\> Age: 49  
> \>\> Gender: Male  
> \>\> Astrological Sign: Sagittarius  
> \>\> Zodiac Year: Boar  
> \>\> Industry:  
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > \>\> > Telecommunications\<<http://www.blogger.com/profile-find.g?t=j&ind=TELECOMMUNICATIONS>\>  
> \>\> Occupation: > Engineer\<<http://www.blogger.com/profile-find.g?t=o&q=Engineer>\>  
> \>\> Location:  
> \>\> > Fremont\<<http://www.blogger.com/profile-find.g?t=l&loc0=US&loc1=California&loc2=Fremont>\>:  
> \>\> > California\<<http://www.blogger.com/profile-find.g?t=l&loc0=US&loc1=California>\>:  
> \>\> United  
> \>\> States \<<http://www.blogger.com/profile-find.g?t=l&loc0=US>\>  
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > \>\> About Me  
> \>\> Someone trying to do charity and a public service by sharing > knowledge  
> \>\> with  
> \>\> blogging. Just another wandering person like you in the awe of > the world  
> \>\> and  
> \>\> the creation. B.Tech from Indian Institute of Technology in EE. > MBA from  
> \>\> Santa Clara University. Certified Yoga and Pranayama Teacher > and  
> \>\> Practitioner. Sanskrit and Vedic Scripture Scholar. 16 Patents > out of 21  
> \>\> Filed.  
> \>\> What do we really know, so that we can judge others outside us in > this  
> \>\> World?  
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > \>\> \*Take a look at : >
> 
> > 

> 
> > 
> >   
> \>\> <http://sanskrit-words.blogspot.com/>  
> \>\>  <http://commonworldinheritage.blogspot.com/>  
> \>\> Further,  
> \>\>  <http://aum-in-crete-and-america.blogspot.com/>  
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > \>\> \*\*"\*DNA study, and other observations of mine, which I will > write about >
> 
> > 

> 
> > 
> >   
> \>\> sometime, now admits that the migration happened from the > North-Western  
> \>\> Region of Indian Peninsula to Europe in 40,000 BC. It would be > wrong to  
> \>\> say that all the things that make up a civilization happened in > the last  
> \>\> 5000 years only and before that there was no civilization. The > western  
> \>\> thinking was very much influenced by Bible's Genesis, which said > that the  
> \>\> world was made in 7 days, around 5000 years back, and this was a > big  
> \>\> influence to them. In another posting, I will show that the > stories of  
> \>\> Bible, in Old Testament specially, are of Babylonia and Egyptian > origin,  
> \>\> which were copied from Persians and their eastern sources, but > some where  
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > \>\> misunderstood or taken literally.\*" >
> 
> > 

> 
> > 
> >   
> \>\> Pictures of Sri Sunil Srivastava's personal findings are > provided in the  
> \>\> above blogs.  
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > \>\>  \*"This is another symbol of Native Americans, which I picked > up a long >
> 
> > 



> 
> > 
> > \>\> \*  
> \>\> \* >
> 
> > 



> 
> > 
> > \>\> --  
> \>\> You received this message because you are subscribed to the > Google  
> \>\> Groups "Foundation for Indian Scientific Heritage" group.  
> \>\> To post to this group, send email to  
> \>\> [foundation-for-india...@googlegroups.com]()  
> \>\> To unsubscribe from this group, send email to  
> > 
> > 
> > \>\> > [foundation-for-indian-scie...@googlegroups.com]()\<[foundation-for-indian-scientific-heritage%2Bunsu...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > \>\> For more options, visit this group at  
> \>\>  
> \>\> > <http://groups.google.co.in/group/foundation-for-indian-scientific-heritage?hl=en?hl=en-GB>  
> \>\> HERITAGE AWARENESS MAKES AN ENLIGHTENED CITIZEN.  
> \>  
> \> --  
> \> You received this message because you are subscribed to the > Google  
> \> Groups "Foundation for Indian Scientific Heritage" group.  
> \> To post to this group, send email to  
> \> [foundation-for-india...@googlegroups.com]()  
> \> To unsubscribe from this group, send email to  
> \> [foundation-for-indian-scie...@googlegroups.com]()  
> \> For more options, visit this group at  
> \> > <http://groups.google.co.in/group/foundation-for-indian-scientific-heritage?hl=en?hl=en-GB>  
> \> HERITAGE AWARENESS MAKES AN ENLIGHTENED CITIZEN.  
>   
> --  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google  
> Groups "Foundation for Indian Scientific Heritage" group.  
> To post to this group, send email to  
> [foundation-for-india...@googlegroups.com]()  
> To unsubscribe from this group, send email to  
> [foundation-for-indian-scie...@googlegroups.com]()  
> For more options, visit this group at  
> <http://groups.google.co.in/group/foundation-for-indian-scientific-heritage?hl=en?hl=en-GB>  
> HERITAGE AWARENESS MAKES AN ENLIGHTENED CITIZEN. >
> 
> > 

  
  
  
--  
Aangirasa/Dr.S.Ramakrishna Sharma. M.A.,Ph.D.(Eng.Lit.),Ph.D.(Sanskrit.).  

