+++
title = "000 S.Subrahmanya"

+++
[[S.Subrahmanya	2017-05-09, 19:34:14 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/X8fAGcnyK_o)]]



**Causality in Science and Vedānta**  

**  
**

**Date : 4th June to 4th July, 2017**

**Time: 6:00 to 7:30 PM**

**Venue : TMC (Tata Memorial Club) Hall**

**       Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru 560012**

  

**To attend, please register here:**          

   <https://goo.gl/forms/BtJl8caYwgonTc9v2>

  

**A brief introduction to the topic in this video here:  
**

  <https://youtu.be/NzOBh1GJCPE?t=1005>  

  

**About the course:**

This 30 day course is designed to present the salient ideas of Vedānta

to an audience who have a background in Science, particularly Physics. Concepts

learnt in this course will help the participants to get a fresh perspective to carry their

research in Science forward.

No background of Vedānta will be assumed on the part of the participants.

A familiarity with high-school and pre-university Physics will be an advantage.

The interpretation of Quantum Mechanics according to the models of Niels Bohr

and David Bohm will be discussed in greater detail in the course.

  

**About Swāmī’ji:** Pūjya Swāmī Paramānanda Bhāratī, in his pūrvāśrama was a Professor

of Physics at IIT Madras. Being the author of many books on Vedānta, Swāmī’ji

feels that scientists should have an exposure to Vedānta and similarly traditional scholars

of śāstras should have an exposure to Science. Swāmī’ji has taken active part in

organizing and participating in various seminars and conferences that bring together

scientists and traditionalists.

Swāmī’ji has also established a gurukula in Kolar to preserve and propagate

the Mādhyandina Śākhā of the Śukla-Yajurveda.

  

