+++
title = "043 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2011-12-12, 20:46:08 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/4Sf6qYT0uh4)]]



Namaskar Dr Mishra & Dr Korada,

  

Dr Korada you are correct that the query should have been under the discussion of " query - shabda, artha & j\~aanam"  
  

Also, Thanks to Dr Mishra for recognizing where I was trying to go with it?

  

I was trying to dwell upon the "Meaning of Meaning" \["artha" (the Term) of the word "artha" (as specific) word itself.  

  

Once the relation of "prayojana" coincides with the original indented meaning of the "specific word" is understood by the other person then everything gets resolved. After all, the guidance or only hears the vaikari. and the person trying to comprehend does not have any way of knowing "madhyamaa", "paaraa" and "paShya.nti". My be having recognized this aspect it is said, \|\| natu pR^ithaktvena ma.nttraH shabdaH va nirvaktavyaaH prakaraNa evatu nirvaktavyaaH \|\|   (REQUEST: can some one give me the exact reference for this quotation - Thank you all in advance).

  

IMO - All knowledge is for the living and therefore understand of words as perceived from "vaikhari" is important. If this is understood then there is no issue, otherwise there is "misunderstanding" with warrants "bhaaSya" to clarify the position..  

  

With best regards,  
  
Dr Yadu  

  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**From:** Surendra Mohan Mishra \<[dr.surendramo...@gmail.com]() \>  
**To:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
**Sent:** Monday, December 12, 2011 12:03 AM  
**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} query - HariH oM reg.  



