+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2011-03-26, 17:44:29 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/2jOuM40F1Dc)]]



Vedic Venues : Journal of the Continuity of Vedic Culture

General Notificaiton

  

  

This peer-reviewed Journal will be launched in December 2011. Below :

  

\(A\) Is a list of the Editors and members of the Editorial Board – all renownedexperts in the fields of Anthropology, Archaeology, History, Language (Sanskrit),Literature, Philosophy, Science and Technology etc.

  

\(B\) Are instructions for the presentation of articles for publication: all should besent electronically in A4 format. Please read them carefully and comply, otherwise thecontributions will be returned forthwith.

  

\(C\) Various subjects and themes are suggested for research.

  

A\)

Coordinator:KAZANAS N, Director, Omilos Meleton Cultural Inst, Athens (Greece).

Assistant:KARANTH D, Univ of Wisconsin-Parkside, Kenosha, WI, (USA)

  

Editors:

TIWARI Sh, (Mrs) Prof SanskritMaitreyi College, Delhi Univ.

JHA RN, Ass Prof Philosophy,Centre for Sanskrit Studies,Jawaharlal Nehru Univ, Delhi.

  

EditorialBoard:

ACHAR N,Memphis Univ, Tenesee (USA).

AKLUJKAR A, Emeritus,British Columbia , Vancouver.

BISHT RS,Retd Director General,Archaeological Survey of India.

DASH S,Madras Univ, Chennai.

GUPT Bh,College of Vocational StudiesDelhi Univ.

KENNEDY K, Emeritus,Cornell Univ, Ithaca, NY.

KUMAR SH (Mrs) ProfFormer Chairperson, Centre for SanskritStudies, JNU.

MANOHAR R, Research DirectorAVT Inst for Advanced Research,Coimbatore, India.

MISHRA HR,Centre for Sanskrit StudiesJNU, Delhi.

SHARMA SR Emeritus,Deccan Coll, Pune.

AGRAWAL A,Panjab Univ, Chandigarh.

BAJPAI Sh, Emeritus,California State Univ, Northridge.

CHAKRABARTI DK,Retd, Cambridge (UK).

DI GIOVINE P,‘Sapienza’, Univ of Rome.

IYENGAR RN,Jain Univ, Bangalore;Indian Academy of Sciences.

KLOSTERMAIER K,Manitoba Univ, Canada.

LAL BB, DirectorIndian Archaeological Society,Delhi.

MARCANTONIO A (Mrs)‘Sapienza’, Univ of Rome.

SHAFFER A,Case Western Reserve Univ,Cleveland (Ohio ).

SRINIVASAN K,Vivekananda Coll, Chennai

  

B\) Instructions

A new Journal with studies on the Vedic Culture and its continuity is about to belaunched. Well-written, well-substantiated and well-argued papers in Anthropology,Archaeology, Art, Astronomy, Buddhism, Hinduism, History, Jainism, Linguistics,Literature, Mythology, Philology, Philosophy, Science and Technology, comparisons withother Indoeuropean branches and any other aspect pertaining to the Vedic Traditionare welcome. The language must be English and the following conditions should beobserved:

1\. The paper should not exceed 12 pages of A4 size (or 6000 words) butexceptional cases will be given consideration.

2\. It should start with an Abstract summarizing the subject-matter.

3\. All quotations in languages other than English should be accompanied withan English translation. Obviously, not everyone knows Bengali, French,German, Greek, Gujurati, Hindi, Italian, Latin, Malayalam, Marathi, Punjabi,Russian, Tamil and so on.

4\. All diacritics should be written fully and correctly.

5\. Rigvedic citations should have the accent udatta whether in devanagari or inRoman transliteration and the latter should be in italics: e.g. ékam vāidám víbabhūva sárvam ‘the one became variously (ví) all this \[creation\]’. (Englishtranslation necessary!)

6. All citations or quotations should have full references. E.g. dhruvám jyotirníhitam dṛśáye kam ‘a fixed light was implanted for seeing well’ RV 6.9.5 –where we have the source, Book, hymn and stanza. Or: “\[Sanskrit\] is alanguage which in most respects is more archaic than any other member ofthe \[Indo-European\] family” (Burrow 1973: 34; brackets added) – where wehave original author, year of publication of the work from which comes thequotation, page number and the explanation that the brackets are insertedby the writer of the article.

7\. Explanatory notes should be at the bottom of the page as and where theyoccur. These should not be used to refer merely to publications or authors;the latter should be given as in 6.

8\. A full bibliography at the very end, in this format:Burrow T. 1973 (rev. ed.) The Sanskrit Language, London, Faber & Faber.Titles of books should be in italics. Titles of articles should be within single

quotation marks but the title of the Journal or Book in italics, e.g.:Leach E, 1990 ‘Aryan invasions over four millennia’ in E Ohnuki-Tierney(ed) Culture through Time Stanford, Stanford University Press

(166-177) – where the last numbers give pages.

9\. All papers will be viewed (and vetted) by the Editor(s) and at least one otherreferee.

10\. Tables, photographs, maps and other figures should be placed as near their mention in the document as possible.

11\. Articles submitted should be original unpublished works. But revised orenriched forms of older articles (with details of the former publication) maybe accepted.

12\. Contributions should be sent to the Editors by email: –Prof Shashi Tiwari \<[shash...@yahoo.com]()\> andProf Ram Nath Jha \<[rn...@hotmail.com]()\> .

Articles should be submitted electronically as PDF and word processor fileto either of two editors above. Colour pictures should be minimum and ifever should be at the end of the papers. Contributors should indicate theiremail, fax, telephone numbers and postal address. As the article will berefereed, these personal details should appear only on separate title page,and nowhere else in the text, so that anonymity will be ensured.Submission of articles implies permission to the Journal to distribute this inelectronic or printed form and be entitled to any remuneration accruingtherefrom. But copyright remains with the author who may after six monthsre-publish the article anywhere with the acknowledgement of its priorappearance in *Vedic Venues*.

C. We would like articles on all subjects pertaining to the Vedic Tradition fromtheṛgveda to the Purāṇas and modern times. The policy of the Journal is to have carefulevidence-based approach on all subjects. Writers and peer-reviewers are asked toensure that all chronologies are well argued and substantiated with data or clearlylabelled as speculative. This applies especially to key assumptions like the AryanInvasion/Immigration Theory c 1500 BCE or the composition of the .gveda c 1200 BCE.

Any chronologies based on such or similar Theories must be justified with evidence andclear arguments and not mere repetition of traditional assumptions.Contributions are invited especially on the following subjects:

  

1\. History in theṛgveda.

2. Poetic devices, allegory or symbolism in theṛgveda.

3\. Philosophical ideas in the Yajurveda (VS or TS) or the Atharvaveda, other thanworship and sacrifice.

4\. Differences in the language of the RV and AV.

5\. Analysis, linguistic and/or philosophical, (of anyone) of theāraṇyakas andUpaniṣads.

6\. Geometry in the Brāhmaṇas or theśulbasūtras and its relation to the MatureHarappan urban planning, buildings etc.

7\. Reappraisal of the evidences regarding the date of the Mahābhārata war andthe epic.

8\. The astronomical tradition and the four yugas.

9\. Literary analysis of (parts of) the Rāmāyaṇa or Kālidāsa’s Meghadhūta orHarṣa’s Ratnāvali and so on.

10\. Early and late material in the Manusmṛti.

  

11\. The rise of the fourāśrama (with reference to P.Olivelle’s 1993 Theāśramasystem…, NY OUP).

12\. Aspects of the theory of Drama and actual dramatic works.

13\. The essence of, say, the Sānkhya system or Nyāya or Vaiśeṣika or Mahāyāna.And so on…

14\. Scientific enquiry at different ancient periods; Vedic thought and modernscience; etc.

15\. Vedic ideas condusive to a healthy life in modern times. Ayurvedic diet etc.

16\. Vedic ideas condusive to global peace.

17\. The RV and the Sāyaṇa hermeneutic tradition.

18\. The rise of Trimurti and other deities out of the Vedic gods and goddesses.

19\. Old and new material in thePurāṇas.

20\. Sanskrit today….

21\. Relation between Sanskrit and Dravidian.

22\. Relation between Dravidian and Sanskrit literatures.And so on …. Naturally anthropological, archaeological and comparative(mythology, philology etc.) studies touching on Vedic issues will be welcome.Upon receipt of every contribution, acknowledgement will be sent saying whetherit has been accepted, rejected or forwarded to a referee for further appraisal. Only if thereferee(s) and editor(s) agree that the paper is suitable, will it be published. In anyevent, the writer will be notified within three months, and wherever possiblerecommendations for revision or corrections will be given.

  
  
  

  

