+++
title = "002 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2011-07-17, 06:07:40 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/UZvenfrwjP8)]]



Namaste Dr. Trikha:

  

ashvinikaumaara are also designated as devataa for the muuShaka suukta from Atharva veda (6.50 1-3)  

  

I have also read the ashvinau as being praaNa & apaana in connection with yoga perspective.

  

Is it possible that if one takes the overall-all meaning as breathing, which is an essential part of living (as we know). So the knowledge is for the being who is living currently.

  

If one takes this approach then, trhe concept of ashviniikumaara as devetaa start making sense. They, being the physicians the suuktakaara is requesting their help for survival.

  

If one tries to understand the R^icaa as such then one realizes that it has two parts,

  

a. Glorifies the deity (I regard this as the successful track-record of individual deity)

b. One is unable to survive on their own and hen the request for divine (expert) intervention as appeals for for longevity, health, wealth and prosperity, etc?

  

padenaardhena copetvR^ittabaddhaa manttraa R^icaH  

(Meaning - *A composition, where half of the portion is fixed in a våtta (meter of composition) is known as R^icaa.)*

  

This also bring out the possible origin on the concept of "namaskaara" (suggesting surrender with folded hands - hatabaddha (meaning - they tries their best but have given-up and surrender to the specific deity) !!?).  

  

Any addition thoughts and comments for scholars would be highly appreciated.

  

Best regards,

  

Dr. Yadu  

  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**From:** Rajkumari Trikha \<[rajkuma...@gmail.com]()\>  
**To:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
**Sent:** Saturday, July 16, 2011 5:43 AM  
**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Re: {&#2349;&#2366;&#2352;&#2340;&#2368;&#2351;&#2357;&#2367;&#2342;&# 2381;&#2357;&#2340;&#2381;&#2346;&#2352;&#2367;&#2359;&#2340;&#2381;} Re: \[BEF\] 8000 year old pre-Indus coastal civilization PHOTOS  



