+++
title = "000 Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma"

+++
[[Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma	2010-09-12, 07:25:48 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/bj1pWeXwbD4)]]



Respected Members,  
  
\>I have no degree, but श्रद्धा for sholars like you and saints.  
  
Any number of degrees, alphabets added to suffixes of our names  
can match the qualifications prescribed in and by the Vedas for  
a Veda-Vidya Jijnaasu.  
  
And there is no translation for the word श्रद्धा.  
The Bhagavadgita puts it as:श्रद्धामयो'यं पुरुष:, यो यत् श्रद्ध: स एव स:  
that it is inherent inborn trait of the individual depending upon the tri-guna  
composition of a given individual. Eating taamasic food one cannot have saatvika shraddha.  
"नाविरतो दुश्चरितात् नाशान्तो नासमाहित:" He who has not abstained from bad conduct and consequent restlessness and lack of integrity CANNOT enter the sanctum of Vedic knowledge.  
And no carbon dating can prove the eternal nature of the ageless truths.Consciousness is beyond carbon. Where physical sciences end Metaphysics begins.  
  
Pranams.  
  
  

On Sun, Sep 12, 2010 at 6:06 AM, Arun Upadhyay \<[arunupa...@yahoo.in]()\> wrote:  

> [TABLE] >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > --  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google  
> Groups "Foundation for Indian Scientific Heritage" group.  
> To post to this group, send email to  
> [foundation-for-india...@googlegroups.com]()  
> To unsubscribe from this group, send email to  
> [foundation-for-indian-scie...@googlegroups.com]()  
> For more options, visit this group at  
> <http://groups.google.co.in/group/foundation-for-indian-scientific-heritage?hl=en?hl=en-GB>  
> HERITAGE AWARENESS MAKES AN ENLIGHTENED CITIZEN. >
> 
> > 

  
  
  
--  
Aangirasa/Dr.S.Ramakrishna Sharma. M.A.,Ph.D.(Eng.Lit.),Ph.D.(Sanskrit.).  

