+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2011-09-16, 08:41:42 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/1Nx5rL4PVN4)]]



[http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.com/2011/09/central-asian-seals-seal-impressions.](http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.com/2011/09/central-asian-seals-seal-impressions.html)[html](http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.com/2011/09/central-asian-seals-seal-impressions.html)

  

Excerpt of update of Sept. 16, 2011 on the blogpost at:<http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.com/2011/09/central-asian-seals-seal-impressions.html>Central Asian seals, seal impressions and parallels in Indus Script hieroglyphs

  

This is a compliment for and grateful acknowledgement of Prof. Michael Witzel's contributions in unraveling the Indus language.

  

[Language of the BMAC  
  
Terms borrowed from an otherwise unknown language include those relating to cereal-growing and bread-making (bread, ploughshare, seed, sheaf, yeast), water-works (canal, well), architecture (brick, house, pillar, wooden peg), tools or weapons (axe, club), textiles and garments (cloak, cloth, coarse garment, hem, needle) and plants (hemp, cannabis, mustard, Soma plant).\[Michael Witzel, Central Asian Roots and Acculturation in South Asia. Linguistic and Archaeological Evidence from Western Central Asia, the Hindukush and Northwestern South Asia for Early Indo-Aryan Language and Religion. In: T. Osada (ed.), Linguistics, Archaeology and the Human Past (Kyoto : Indus Project, Research Institute for Humanity and Nature 2005), pp. 87-211.\]Lubotsky pointed out that the phonological and morphological similarity of 55 loanwords in Proto-Indo-Iranian and in Sanskrit indicates that a substratum of Indo-Iranian and a substratum of Indo-Aryan represent the same language, or perhaps two dialects of the same language. He concludes that the language of the original population of the towns of Central Asia, where Indo-Iranians must have arrived in the second millennium BCE, and the language spoken in Punjab (see Harappan below) were intimately related.\[A. Lubotsky, The Indo-Iranian Substratum, in: Early Contacts between Uralic and Indo-European: Linguistic and Archaeological Considerations, ed. Chr. Carpelan, A. Parpola, P.Koskikallio (Helsinki, Suomalais- Ugrilainen Seura 2001), pp. 301-317.\]However an alternative interpretation is that 55 loanwords entered common Proto-Indo-Iranian during its development in the Sintashta culture in distant contact with the Bactria–Margiana Archaeological Complex, and then many more words with the same origin enriched Old Indic as it developed among pastoralists who integrated with and perhaps ruled over the declining BMAC.\[D.W. Anthony, The Horse, the Wheel and Language (2007), pp. 455-6.  
  
\[See also: F.B.J. Kuiper, Aryans in the Rigveda, (Amsterdam-Atlanta: Rodopi 1991) from which some of these examples are taken.\]  
  
Examples:  
  
 Skt. amsu- \`Soma plant'; Av. asu- 'Haoma plant'  
 Skt. atharvan- : Av. aerauuan-/araurun- \`priest'  
 Skt. bhisaj- m. \`physician'; Av. bi- \`medicine', LAv. biaziia- 'to cure'  
 Skt. chaga- : Oss. saeg / saegae \`billy-goat'  
 Skt. dursa- \`coarse garment' : Wakhi dərs \`wool of a goat or a yak'  
 Skt. gandha- \`smell' : LAv. gainti- \`bad smell'  
 Skt. gandharva- : LAv. ganedərəva- \`a mythical being'  
 Skt. Indra- name of a god; LAv. Indra- name of a daeva  
 Skt. istaka- f. (VS+); LAv. istiia- n., OP isti- f., MiP xist 'brick'  
 Skt. jahaka- : LAv. duzuka-, Bal. jajuk, duzux, MoP zuza \`hedgehog'  
 Skt. kesa- \`hair' : LAv. gaesa- \`curly hair'  
 Skt. nagnahu- (AVP+) m. \`yeast, ferment'; PIr. \*nagna- \`bread'  
 Skt. phala- : MoP supar \`ploughshare'  
 Skt. seppa-, but Prkrit cheppa- : LAv. xsuuaepa- \`tail'  
 Skt. sikata- : OP sika- \`sand'  
 Skt. suco- : LAv. suka- \`needle'  
 Skt. ustra-; Av. ustra-, 'camel'  
 Skt. yavya- /yaviya/ \`stream, canal'; OP yauviya- \`canal'.](http://www.people.fas.harvard.edu/~witzel/IndusLang.pdf)  
  
<http://www.people.fas.harvard.edu/~witzel/IndusLang.pdf>[Michael E. J. Witzel, The Languages of Harappa, provisional version dated 17 February 2000, intended for J. Kenoyer (ed.),Proceedings of the conference on the Indus civilization, Madison 1998.](http://www.people.fas.harvard.edu/~witzel/IndusLang.pdf)  
  
Mirror:  
[Languages of Harappa - Witzel (2000)](http://www.docstoc.com/docs/94946983/Languages-of-Harappa---Witzel-(2000))\[Embedded in the blog post.\]  
  

“…some 4% of the words in this sacred text (Rigveda) are clearly of non-IE, nonIndo-Aryan origin, in other words, from a pre-IA substrate.” Analysing about 300 non-IE words (related, for e.g. to local flora and fauna, agriculture and artisanship) in Rigveda, Witzel (based on Kuiper) tries to identify a substrate language which may explain the underlying language of Indus script. A significant hypothesis is: “…the possibility of early (Para-)Munda settlements further west than Munda speakers are found now. The Rgvedic substrate words from a prefixing language may be a very early form of Munda (or another variety of Austro-Asiatic) which still used prefixes actively, such as the eastern Austro-As. languages (Mon, Khmer)…if the Rgvedic Para-Munda is a somewhat deviant form of Austro-Asiatic, it represents a very old stage of this language family indeed. In that case, this Rgvedic western Austro-Asiatic would stand next to Munda and eastern Austro-Asiatic (Mon-Khmer)…In other words, the western Austro-Asiatic visible in the RV loans, may have been another type of Austro-As. (therefore, I chose the term Para-Munda, Witzel 1999), -- another sub-family of the great Austro-Asiatic family which stretches from the Greater Punjab to Vietnam and from N. Burma to the outskirts of Singapore…The c.300 words in the RV constitute, after all, the oldest recorded language in the Panjab. It must be underlined that, just like an ancient inscription, these words have not changed since the composition of these hymns c. 1500 BCE, as the RV has been transmitted almost without any change, i.e. we know exactly in which limited cases certain sounds – but not words, tonal accents, sentences – have been changed. The modern oral recitation of the RV is a tape recording of c. 1700-1200 BCE, and as that, of the oldest Austro-Asiatic that we have.”  
  
While discounting the reference to c.1500 BCE as a disputable issue, this remarkable statement outlining the structure and form of the language of the ‘Panjab’ (simply, the Harappan language) is worthy of attention and further deployment to decode the Indus script using this underlying language.  
  
I should compliment Witzel for this remarkable contribution made to assist further researches in unraveling the code of the Indus script (while it is unfortunate that Witzel later changed his position somewhat claiming that Indus script does not code a spoken language at all).  
  
[Kalyanaraman finds many Munda and Austro-Asiatic words of such a language which could explain rebus readings of many hieroglyphs of Indus Script.](http://www.amazon.com/Indus-Script-Cipher-Hieroglyphs-linguistic/dp/0982897103/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1316000756&sr=8-1)  
  
This insight by Witzel makes Munda speakers a possible group of speakers of the Indus language underlying the Indus script.  
  
An example related to artisanship is cited, while identifying words with ka-, ki-, ku-, ke- prefixes (prominent in Munda) : “Ved. kuliśa 'axe' which E W A I 374 declares as not securely etymologized, has been connected with Drav. (Tam. kuLir 'battle axe', Kan. kuTTu 'to beat, strike, pound', Kuiper 1955: 163), but also with Munda (in Skt. kuThara, kuddåla 'hoe', Sant., Mundari kutam 'to beat, hammer', Mundari, Ho kutasi 'hammer', Kuiper 1955: 163); Berger 1963: 419 derives \*kuDiśa from \*k o d e ś , Kharia, Mundari khoNDe’j 'axe', with prefix kon- from Kharia te’j 'break'.”  
  
Hieroglyphs (Greek ἱερογλύφος, hieroglyphos), "sacred carving" are characters made by graphical figures (glyphs), be it animals, or objects. In the linguistic area of India, a synonym is kundau to turn on a lathe, to carve (Santali); kũdār, kũdāri (Bengali); kudaṛ spade, axe (Go.) ; kotti ‘carver’ (Malayalam). kottaṉ a mason (Ta.) kotti pick-axe, stone-digger, carver (Ma.) (DEDR 2091) koḍ Artisans’ workplace (G.) খোদকার \[ khōdakāra \] n an engraver; a carver. খোদকারি n. engraving; carving; interference in other's work. খোদাই \[ khōdāi \] n engraving; carving. খোদাই করা v. to engrave; to carve. খোদানো v. & n. en graving; carving. খোদিত \[ khōdita \] a engraved. (Bengali) खोदकाम \[ khōdakāma \] n Sculpture; carved work or work for the carver. खोदगिरी \[ khōdagirī \] f Sculpture, carving, engraving: also sculptured or carved work. खोदणावळ \[ khōdaṇāvaḷa \] f (खोदणें) The price or cost of sculpture or carving. खोदणी \[ khōdaṇī \] f (Verbal of खोदणें) Digging, engraving &c. 2 fig. An exacting of money by importunity. v लाव, मांड. 3 An instrument to scoop out and cut flowers and figures from paper. 4 A goldsmith's die. खोदणें \[ khōdaṇēṃ \] v c & i ( H) To dig. 2 To engrave. खोद खोदून विचारणें or -पुसणें To question minutely and searchingly, to probe. खोदाई \[ khōdāī \] f ( H) Price or cost of digging or of sculpture or carving. खोदींव \[ khōdīṃva \] p of खोदणें Dug. 2 Engraved, carved, sculptured. (Marathi)  
  
koḍ 'artisan's workshop' (Kuwi) koḍ = place where artisans work (G.) ācāri koṭṭya ‘smithy’ (Tu.) कोंडण \[kōṇḍaṇa\] f A fold or pen. (Marathi) B. kõdā ‘to turn in a lathe’; Or.kū̆nda ‘lathe’, kũdibā, kū̃d ‘to turn’ (→ Drav. Kur. kū̃d ’ lathe’) (CDIAL 3295) A. kundār, B. kũdār, ri, Or. kundāru; H. kũderā m. ‘one who works a lathe, one who scrapes’, rī f., kũdernā ‘to scrape, plane, round on a lathe’; kundakara— m. ‘turner’ (Skt.)(CDIAL 3297).  
  
कोंदण \[ kōndaṇa \] n (कोंदणें) Setting or infixing of gems.(Marathi)  
  
Glyph of fish ligatured to ^ The ligature may be interpreted as a graphic element to denote ‘angle’. koṇḍa bend (Ko.); Rebus: kõdā ‘to turn in a lathe’(B.) कोंद kōnda ‘engraver, lapidary setting or infixing gems’ (Marathi)Thus, the ligatured glyph of ‘fish’ can be read as: ayo + kõdā = an ‘iron turner workshop’. \[It should be noted that the fish hieroglyph is read rebus as: ayo 'fish'; ayo, ayas 'metal'. Thus, the ligatured glyph of ‘fish’ can be read as: ayo + kõdā = an ‘iron turner workshop’.\]  
  
In this perspective of an example of 'axe' -related words in Indian linguistic area, it is possible to explain the so-called 'ceremonial silver axe with gold plating of BMAC' as a representation of the engraver as an artisan engaged in metalworking.  
  
The Indus artisan who invented or deployed many skills and techniques had also become a writer or engraver using Indus script cipher. There are over 200 indus inscriptions incised on copper tablets providing evidence of metalworking by the artisans.

Kalyanaraman

<https://sites.google.com/site/indianoceancommunity1/>[  
](http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.com/)[http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.com](http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.com/)

<http://tinyurl.com/3w6ojj6> (Indus Script Cipher)  

<http://tinyurl.com/4xguuoh> (Rastram: Flipkart in India)

  

