+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2011-07-04, 02:04:12 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/nocfeWu1Bno)]]



Second Call for Papers:Southeast Asiaand World History, World  
History Association Conference,January 2-4, 2012,Siem Reap, Cambodia  
  
\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*  
From: Marc Gilbert \<[hallg...@earthlink.net]()\>  
  
  
Second Call for Papers  
  
Southeast Asia and World History  
  
January 2-4, 2012, Siem Reap, Cambodia  
  
The World History Association, in conjunction with Pannasastra University ofCambodia, is issuing a call for papers for a symposium on the world-historical significance of Southeast Asia. The symposium seeks to generate dialog among scholars within and outside of the region regarding its place in world history. It also seeks to stimulate discussion of world history methodology as well as pedagogy while identifying those world history processes that have application to the region’s past, present and future.  
  
  
Among the topics that may be addressed at the symposium are: the nature of world history; the processes of indigenization, localization, and syncretism; the decline and fall of classical societies; Diaspora and gender studies; the colonial experience; nationalism; conflict and post-conflict studies; trade; economy; language, religion and culture; art; regional questions in global perspective such as borderlands; regional diplomatic relations; investment, tourism and resource management issues; the environment; comparative genocide; and models for World History and global studies in terms of scholarship and  
instruction. These topics are examples only and should not be taken to exclude proposals on other topics. Scholars from all disciplines are encouraged to submit proposals.Select refereed papers from the conference will be published in the e-journal World History Connected (University of Illinois Press) and a book project is planned to which attendees will be encouraged to submit contributions to be considered for publication.  
  
The symposium will be held minutes from the Archeological Conservation Area that includesAngkor Wat. Pre/post and concurrent symposium activities will be structured so as to permit tours of these and other local sites which connect them to the wider region and the world.  
  
  
Panels will meet in air conditioned rooms on the newly-built PUCSiem Reapcampus. The time limit for presenting papers will be 20 minutes, and the deadline for submitting papers to the session moderator is three weeks in advance of the conference.Individual paper proposals must include a 100-200 word summary with the title of the paper, name, institutional affiliation, e-mail address, phone and fax numbers, and brief curriculum vitae, all integrated into a single file, preferably in MS-Word. Proposals for entire sessions or panels must contain the same information for each participant, as well as contact information and a brief C.V. for the moderator if you suggest one. (The program committee can help find moderators, if necessary.) There is a limited number of AV-equipped rooms available so it is essential that you indicate your need for audiovisual equipment (and what kind) in your proposal. All meeting rooms are air conditioned.  
  
Please send your completed proposal with the following in the subject line of the email: WHS, followed by Your LAST NAME (family), and then Your First name, then short paper/panel name to the WHA Symposia coordinator, Maryanne Rhett, at[mrh...@monmouth.edu]().   
  
Individuals wishing to moderate a session should send a statement of interest,  
contact information, and a brief C.V. to the program coordinator.  
  
Questions regarding program events and content only may be directed to the  
Program Chair, Marc Jason Gilbert at[mgil...@hpu.edu]().  
  
All panelists must register to be on the program.  
  
A rolling acceptance process will be in place to assist panelists to solicit  
travel support from their home institutions and organizations.  
  
The language of the conference is English.  
  
Unfortunately, the conference does not have funds to subsidize scholars’ travel  
and lodging at the meeting.  
  
The deadline for the submission of paper and panel proposals is September 1st,  
2011.  
  
The standard registration rate will be $125.00 payable to the World History  
Association. Benefits of registration for WHA members and waivers for Cambodian  
teachers, members of Teachers Across Borders and others will be posted on the  
WHA registration site at[http://www.thewha.org/future_wha_conferences.php](http://www.thewha.org/future_wha_conferences.php).  
  
Please check the World History Association website ([http://www.thewha.org/](http://www.thewha.org/)) for  
registration information, low-cost housing options and both conference and  
optional touring logistics information (to be posted shortly). Excellent  
inexpensive lodging, food, shopping and entertainment are all available close to  
the conference site. Local transportation from hotels nearer the airport is  
available in the range of $2.00 per ride and can be arranged for $20.00 for an  
entire day. The weather in Siem Reap in early January is ideal: dry with cool  
mornings, high in the mid 80s at mid-day. Siem Reap is famous for its Pub Street  
district, a five minute walk from the conference site. It features sidewalk  
restaurants, cafes and shops; most visitors make evening strolls there a habit.  
Siem Reap still has the flavor of a small town, albeit flooded with both  
backpackers and traditional tourists whose presence has led to widespread spoken  
English and Western-style supermarkets. Heath and crime issues are minimal (See  
State Department advisories and your travel medicine specialist before  
undertaking any travel). Tourist visas are inexpensive.  
  
Siem Reap’s international airport is serviced by a variety of airlines from most  
Asian hubs. Many overseas flights transit or make easy connection to inexpensive  
onward flights from Bangkok’s international airport orSeoul, Korea. Because of  
the International Dateline, attendees departingJanuary 4will be able to make  
connections permitting participation at WHA events at American Historical  
Association inChicagolater that week.  
  
  
Marc Jason Gilbert  
NEH Endowed Chair in World History  
College of Humanities and Social Sciences  
Hawaii Pacific University  
1188 Fort Street Mall  
Honolulu, Hawaii, 96813  
[mgil...@hpu.edu]()

  

  

Kalyanaraman

  

<http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.com/>

<https://sites.google.com/site/kalyan97/indus-script-cipher>  
<https://sites.google.com/site/indianoceancommunity1/>  
<https://sites.google.com/site/bharatasahitya/>  

