+++
title = "009 Arun"

+++
[[Arun	2010-08-13, 08:00:06 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/GzadZcgEBUs)]]



Varnas were as per Guna and karma as stated in Gita. There is tendency  
to perpetuate family power, so it has become hereditory. Even in  
politics, party fund becomes a family property, so Indian system has  
become hereditory democracy. Titles of 4 varnas were meant to inicate  
their main functions-but there has been changes from family tradition  
as Vishvamitra had become Brahmarshi. Dasa never meant slave-all  
senior officers are Servants (dasa) of Govt. All leaders are Public  
servants. Even the author of Rigveda Brahmana has been called Aitareya  
Mahidasa. He was not a sold slave nor it was Brahmanic religion.  
Shudraka was Brahmana by birth as indicated by him in Mricchakatikam.  
In 756 BC (Yallaya-Jyotisha darpana), he joined 4 kings for defence  
against Assyrian attacks, at Mount Abu under Vishnu incarnation Buddha  
who was son of Brahmana Ajina of Kikata (Magadha). These 4 kings were  
called Agnivamshi as they were Agri for defence of country against  
Assyrian attack (Durgama Asura in Durga-saptashati, chapter 11). 2 of  
them were brahmanas-Chalukya (now called Solanki in Gujrat or Salunkhe  
in Maharashtra) was follower of Shukla-yajurveda, and Pramara  
(Paramara -including Vikramaditya and Shalivahana upto famous Bhoja)  
was Samavedi. Pratihara and Chahaman were kshatriyas. For joining the  
4 groups, Shudraka was called like Shudra as a praise. Shudra means  
Ashu+dravati like derivation of Shutudri in Nirukta. That means  
efficiency in technical work like an engineer. Combination of 4 Agni  
kings made this Malava-samvat as Krita-samvat. EVen Brahmagupta has  
called his patron as Vyaghrapada-this is gotra of Bhishma, not a  
personal name. Kings of Ujjain region started new calenders, they were  
Vyaghrapada, like Vikramaditya of Ujjain (57 BC-Vikrama-samvat). One  
of his astronomers was Jishnugupta, son of Nepal king Anshuvarman  
(103-33 BC) in whose time Vikrama samvat was started in Nepal. Son of  
Jishnugupta was Brahmagupta. his time has been given in era starting  
in 612 BC but being interprated in era of Shalivahana starting after  
his death in 78 AD-Arun

î—“

