+++
title = "002 ab202012"

+++
[[ab202012	2017-10-26, 09:33:12 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/YK17nIN1j6I)]]



Jai Ma

  

Namaskar

  

Would add to the post of Sri Subramaniam thus:

  

We are searching for those who are interested in the modern schools of Vedic exegesis and sadhana, e.g

  

parampujaniya Ganapati Munivara and Daivarata Sharma

  

Swami Jnaneshwarananda of Pune and Swami Rama Tirtha

  

Pandit Madhusudana Ojha of Rajasthan

  

Various scholars of Maharashtra and other provinces that I do not know about

  

Sri Aurobindo

  

Sri Anirvan

  

  

My humble goal is to preserve the works of Sri Anirvan online, and make them available for all, worldwide. To this end, we, which at this point means a collective of one and an occasional hand from a computer expert, have established a website with an English title, [haimavati-anirvan.org](http://haimavati-anirvan.org).

  

Immediately, a contradiction springs to mind, since the obvious thing to do would have been to establish domain names in major Indian and international languages. We simply do not have the funds or manpower to do this necessary task. Our efforts are a feeble first attempt, which we pray will form the crude base upon which others can build.

  

We have tried to upload almost all the titles that are available, but the list is not exhaustive; not yet. Again, time, funds and energy stand as barriers. We pray that some of these will diminish as time passes.

  

Given all of these constraints, it is keenly felt that the total unfamiliarity of the vaidika/ vidvat samaja with the writings of Sri Anirvan on the Vedas and yajna should be rectified through translations.

  

His prose style in Bangla is lapidary. Indeed, he should be considered a major contributor to the genre of Bangla essay. This style does not make for easy translation, layered as it is with deeper and deeper nuances that only the colloquial language can support. However, we are fortunate that a devoted soul. the late Chabinath Mishra mahodaya translated the VEDA MIMANSA into accurate and impeccable Hindi.

  

With this uploaded on the website, a significant stumbling block is overcome through the grace of the Holy Mother, Haimavati. Many more are familiar with Hindi than are comfortable with colloquial Bangla.

  

We can pray that at least a few will be enough curious to check out the contents, and perhaps even begin to translate into their mother tongues. Translating Hindi to Marathi, Gujarati, Punjabi, Urdu and several closely related North Indian languages should not be very difficult. There are enough vaidikas in some of these language groups to make the effort worthwhile, although most can also read/understand Hindi well enough to make the effort redundant, one might guess!

  

The utility of having accurate Marathi AND Gujarati translations lies in the bilingual speakers of Gujarati-Tamil \[ Saurashtra Brahmans settled in Madurai, for example\] and the Marathi-Tamil-Kannada group. Speaking a language, or three, from birth is vastly different than having to learn them at a later age. The feel for the languages is difficult to describe; it resides in the soul.

  

We do have bilingual Bangala-Tamil, Bangala-Kannada speakers, but how qualified they are to perfectly translate Sri Anirvan's thought and prose without extensive "ullanghana" is another matter.

  

Anyway, nothing ventured nothing gained.

  

The Hindi version of VEDA MIMANSA seems like a Rosetta Stone to this foolish writer. It would be the most convenient stepping stone to translations into other Indian and international languages.

  

Would be grateful for inputs and criticisms on this post.

  

With humble respects,

  

vamadeva bhattacharya

  

  
  
On Saturday, October 21, 2017 at 5:27:19 PM UTC-4, Sathyawageeswar Subramanian wrote:



