+++
title = "000 navaratna rajaramnavaratna"

+++
[[navaratna rajaramnavaratna	2012-01-09, 05:19:12 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/R9s4wq5b6xU)]]



  
  

---------- Forwarded message ----------  
From: **Rajiv Malhotra** \<[RajivMal...@gmail.com]()\>  
Date: Sun, Jan 8, 2012 at 6:02 PM  
Subject: \[RajivMalhotraDiscussion\] Amazing Sanskrit Conference  
To: [RajivMalhot...@yahoogroups.com]()  
  
  



My talk went exceedingly well, an entire Special Panel was on BEING  
DIFFERENT and lasted 2 hours. Especially the Q&A was very deep and  
engaging, with so many Sanskrit experts in the audience who interacted  
for an hour. Numerous new friendships, contacts and invitations have  
resulted, not only from traditional Sanskrit heads but also academic  
centers. A prof. from Indian Institute of Management (Ahmedabad) wants  
me to visit them and give a talk - unsure if I can do it in this trip.  
  
I am delighted that my idea that Sanskrit centers must start purva  
paksha of the west has been well received and planted in the soil  
securely. It will definitely ignite some action. Several chancellors and  
Vice-Chancellors were there, and want further discussions with me on how  
to proceed with the launch of "reversing the gaze on" from India. Many  
voices felt empowered to think and speak in this manner- they had been  
programmed to follow certain channels and live within certain  
boundaries, from which they will now burst out with confidence.  
  
Our traditional Sanskrit scholars (the ones who did not get digested  
into Western Universalism) are so incredibly sharp in their knowledge  
and debating skills, and it was a delight to explain to them "the west's  
philosophical DNA" as seen from our lens. My tiger/deer analogy has  
caught the imagination in the right circle at the highest levels, and  
many prominent persons remarked that we have to stop being like the  
deer.  
  
How I wish that our billionaires who gave their tens of millions of  
dollars to places like Harvard had, instead, given at least some small  
portion of it toward such new path breaking initiatives.  
  
Thanks to your sponsorship, the distribution of BD copies has been going  
very effectively. The conference is spread across two prestigious  
locations. The talks are in Vigyan Bhavan where we did manage to "sneak  
in" many boxes of BD, and with the help of a team of students of  
Sanskrit we gave every attendee at my talk a complimentary copy. In  
parallel, in the other location, IGNCA (Indira Gandhi National Center  
for Arts) is where all the bookstall are. There I made arrangements with  
3 stalls to distribute copies of BD. I am glad to say that the owner of  
DKPW and also Indica (both good publishers of Indology) enthusiastically  
agreed to prominently display BD, and sell it for a token Rs 50 with the  
proceeds donated to a local cause. The third publisher I worked with was  
Motilal Banarsidas (largest Indology publisher in India) but they  
declined to carry it unless they were given commercial terms to make a  
profit. They were very candid that theirs is a strictly commercial  
involvement and for any cause per se. So I had to take the books back  
from them. But we are not missing their participation because the other  
channels are working very effectively.  
  
The bad news is: My talk was not videotaped because none of the talks  
are being recorded.  
  
There are some other major world conference on relevant subjects that  
are being planned on a very large scale - one in Philippines in 2013 and  
the next World Sanskrit Conference in 2015 in Bangkok. The organizers  
and conveners have approached me to get involved to shape these in the  
right direction. They have massive budgets and big potential to make an  
impact. Had I the resources, energy and health I would have been able to  
utilize these doors that have opened to further our cause. I will still  
do my best within my limits. The good news is that the doors have opened  
wide. Our ideas are well respected and being welcomed into important  
groups.  
  

\_\_.\_,\_.\_\_\_

[Reply to sender]() \| [Reply to group]() \| [Reply via web post](http://groups.yahoo.com/group/RajivMalhotraDiscussion/post;_ylc=X3oDMTJxdWY3Mjh0BF9TAzk3MzU5NzE0BGdycElkAzczNTgwNDQyBGdycHNwSWQDMTcwNTA2Mzk4NQRtc2dJZAMxOTg0BHNlYwNmdHIEc2xrA3JwbHkEc3RpbWUDMTMyNjA2NDA0OA--?act=reply&messageNum=1984) \| [Start a New Topic](http://groups.yahoo.com/group/RajivMalhotraDiscussion/post;_ylc=X3oDMTJmaG1zZGtpBF9TAzk3MzU5NzE0BGdycElkAzczNTgwNDQyBGdycHNwSWQDMTcwNTA2Mzk4NQRzZWMDZnRyBHNsawNudHBjBHN0aW1lAzEzMjYwNjQwNDg-)

[Messages in this topic](http://groups.yahoo.com/group/RajivMalhotraDiscussion/message/1984;_ylc=X3oDMTM1c29ycmM3BF9TAzk3MzU5NzE0BGdycElkAzczNTgwNDQyBGdycHNwSWQDMTcwNTA2Mzk4NQRtc2dJZAMxOTg0BHNlYwNmdHIEc2xrA3Z0cGMEc3RpbWUDMTMyNjA2NDA0OAR0cGNJZAMxOTg0) (1)

Recent Activity:

-   [New
    Members](http://groups.yahoo.com/group/RajivMalhotraDiscussion/members;_ylc=X3oDMTJncnIwYzVxBF9TAzk3MzU5NzE0BGdycElkAzczNTgwNDQyBGdycHNwSWQDMTcwNTA2Mzk4NQRzZWMDdnRsBHNsawN2bWJycwRzdGltZQMxMzI2MDY0MDQ4?o=6)
    86

[Visit Your Group](http://groups.yahoo.com/group/RajivMalhotraDiscussion;_ylc=X3oDMTJmMGxic2RhBF9TAzk3MzU5NzE0BGdycElkAzczNTgwNDQyBGdycHNwSWQDMTcwNTA2Mzk4NQRzZWMDdnRsBHNsawN2Z2hwBHN0aW1lAzEzMjYwNjQwNDg-)

MARKETPLACE

[Stay on top of your group activity without leaving the page you're on - Get the Yahoo! Toolbar now.](http://global.ard.yahoo.com/SIG=15o2nhq0v/M=493064.14543979.14562481.13298430/D=groups/S=1705063985:MKP1/Y=YAHOO/EXP=1326071248/L=88d71ef8-3a4d-11e1-af7a-7f734d989e1b/B=wQ88DtGDJGM-/J=1326064048079514/K=WbkHN_EgEm4Dd0drrb9HFw/A=6060255/R=0/SIG=1194m4keh/*http://us.toolbar.yahoo.com/?.cpdl=grpj)

Switch to: [Text-Only](), [Daily Digest]() • [Unsubscribe]() • [Terms of Use](http://docs.yahoo.com/info/terms/)

.

  

\_\_,\_.\_,\_\_\_

  

