+++
title = "002 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2012-03-09, 18:31:30 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/bXewHV8lccI)]]



my dear Dr. Rajaram,



I added the orbit for additional info. But the ratha is pure spin and is clearly defined by yaska; of which I have given the reference, so that you may kindly verify or get it verified acc. to your convenience. Ra stands for rotation; and tha for stationariness. If it is the only instance of similarity between the Vedas and the modern science, its dismissal as a mere overlap may perhaps be appropriate, but the abundance of evidences of scientific data in vedas do not justify mere dismissal; because we will thereby deprive ourselves the opportunity to know better; and deprive the whole world the higher knowledge; which I consider we have no right to do.



It is hightime we shed our biases to the subject; and consider themselves as subject meriting attention of scholars like you, with an open mind. I have discovered plenty but unfortnutely our traditional scholars have neglected the study of science; except doing some lip service to Acharyas like Kapilal who again is totally misunderstood because of lack of the basics of physics.



persons with potential like youshould start investigations into the field; which I assure you will reward richly with results.



Yours fraternally,

s.r.krishna murthy.  
  

On Fri, Mar 9, 2012 at 12:22 PM, Navaratna Rajaram \<[rajaramn...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >  No one denies Vedic knowledge, but it not the same as the > knowledge we have from modern science though there may be some > overlap. The spin (rotation) around an orbit is not the same as what > we call spin in quantum mechanics. It has no orbit but a quantum > mechanical property that distinguishes between force and matter > particles and their statistical behavior. >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >  We really should not confuse the two which are looking at the > cosmos at totally different levels. >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > That is all I'll have to say on this topic. >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Sincerely, >
> 
> > 
> > N.S. Rajaram  
>   
> > 



