+++
title = "003 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2012-03-09, 18:50:06 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/bXewHV8lccI)]]



My dear Mr. Ajit,



Your assumption that you alone know about the spin is ridiculous. you have questioned about my knowledge of spin. The subject matter under discussion is not the knowledge or ignorance of one non-entity like Krishna murthy; but the fund of knowledge in Vedas. As regards that I have given exact references; where you can verify. I do not about you; but I do know about Dr.Rajaram personally, and am confident that he will rest without getting the matter verified. Wait for his findings.



I have also passed on sufficient material from Vedas to various institutions. Even Kepler was readily accepted. Max Plank was doubted. You need not accept me. But the Truth will dawn one day or the other on some persons at least. Vedas are speaking with certainty about things with regard to which modern science is still groping with improbable theories.



Let your next posting deny the veracity of my references to Vedas, than crowing about my ignorance in which nobody will be interested.

  
  


On Fri, Mar 9, 2012 at 2:46 PM, Ajit Gargeshwari \<[ajit.gar...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> Dear shri Krishnamuthi,  

> 
> >   
>   
> " A fundamental role is played by the concept of spin, which too could > not have been known in ancient times."  
>   
> > 

> What you are talking is sheer nonsense.. Do you know any mathematics, > do you understand Quantumn mechanics at all????  
> All i can say say please don't display you ignorance about science > again and again. Do you know what is the concept of spin and anti > spin. are you replying because you need to reply. Please answer.  
> Thanks  
> Ajit Gargeshwari



