+++
title = "003 Vidyasankar Sundaresan"

+++
[[Vidyasankar Sundaresan	2012-10-03, 20:54:11 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/swS4Dw89IEQ)]]



Dear Sri Joshi,  
  
As a thumb rule, you can take the occurrence of the La-kAra as a  
specialty of Rgveda recitation, which is not present elsewhere in  
Sanskrit. In the Rgveda saura sUkta, for example, you will hear two  
consecutive verses: the first begins, "baN mahAn asi sUrya baLAditya  
mahAn asi" and the second begins, "baT sUrya SravasA mahAn asi ..."  
The basic pada used in both verses is baT, which changes to baN when  
followed by the word mahAn, to baL when followed by Aditya, and  
remains unchanged when followed by sUrya.  
  
You can easily deduce a rule about external sandhi here. When word  
ending -T is followed by a word-initial vowel, the sound -L appears  
(instead of becoming -D as in classical Sanskrit). This explains your  
examples, ShaLurvI and ekarALiti - your sandhi vigraha is correct.  
There are other nuances governing internal sandhi in words like ILe  
and mILhuShe, but again, as a general thumb rule, -L and -Lh in Rgveda  
are equivalent to retroflex -D and -Dh respectively. You may have  
noticed that yajurvedins recite -D and -Dh in the same contexts,  
e.g. ... ShaDurvIr uruNaH kR^iNota ..., mIDhushTama Sivatama... etc.  
  
An aside - The word mahAn in the two Rgveda verses quoted above is  
followed by the word asi, beginning with a vowel. It is pronounced not  
with the dantya na-kAra, but is an anusvAra, sounding more or less  
like a kaNThya nasal and written with a candrabindu in printed  
editions. In the context of yajurveda recitation, the same sound would  
become the heavily glottalized anusvAra, sounding like there is an  
explicit -g- sound in there, e.g. mahA(g)M indro vajrabAhuH ..., ...  
bAnavA(g)M uta, etc. This pronunciation complexity of the nasals has  
also been lost in classical Sanskrit.  
  
There is really no logical answer for the question why. They just are,  
as characteristics of Rgveda and yajurveda chanting. What is  
fascinating is how these sounds have been retained in the context of  
veda recitation, even after disappearing from classical Sanskrit.  
  
Best Regards,  
Vidyasankar  

î—“

\> Mom reveals 1 simple wrinkle trick that has angered doctors...<http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3141/506b05d3d9e4e5d36e29st01vuc>  

