+++
title = "000 Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma"

+++
[[Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma	2010-08-11, 06:36:13 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/zndXzBOK9Kk)]]



।।जयतु संकृतं ।।  
प्रणम्य,  
संकृताध्यनसौकर्यार्थं गणकयन्त्रोपयोगार्थं उपलभ्द्धसंकेता: -  
**WELCOME to the Free download page of** **Ganakastadhyayi** *(Windows version)* - a unique software on Sanskrit grammar based on the Sutras of **Panini**. The software, **Ganakashtadhyayi**, derives its name from the original treatise namely, **Ashtadhyayi** . 'Ganaka' means computer and 'Ganakashtadhyayi', therefore, means computer software on Ashtadhyayi.  
  
**Ashtadhyayi** is a wellknown treatise on Sanskrit grammar written by the great sage, **Panini**, who lived as early as 5th century BC. The original work comprises about 4,000 Sutras *(each Sutra not exceeding the length of a normal sentence and many Sutras are even shorter than a phrase or a word)* and is known for its brevity and for its scientific exposition of the science of language. It explains the entire Sanskrit grammar in a very scientific manner and is unparalleled in the history of books on grammar available in any language.  
  
This unique software on Sanskrit Grammar is carefully developed for the use of Sanskrit students and for scholars as well, by no other person than a religious head namely, His Holiness **Dr Shivamurthy Swamiji** of Sri Taralabalu Jagadguru Brihanmath, Sirigere (Karnataka). The Swamiji did his doctoral studies in Sanskrit at the Banaras Hindu University and later pursued his post-doctoral studies at the Indologisches Institute of the University of Vienna (Austria).  
  
The Swamiji was the Honourary President of the Organizing Committee of the 10th World Sanskrit Conference held at Taralabalu Kendra in Bangalore in the year 1997. The Swamiji is a happy blending of both traditional knowledge and modern science, and has put in a lot of efforts in making this software more useful to students as well as scholars of Sanskrit grammar. It is menu driven and is very user friendly. Any person with a little knowledge of operating the computer can run the programme. The present version is having the following features:

-   All the Sutras of Panini are given in Roman script using standard
    diacritical marks (Complete) -   Pada-Patha: Splitting the words as per Sandhis in the Sutras for
    easy comprehension (Incomplete) -   Anuvrittis: Words brought forward from the previous Sutras. -   Vrittis on the Sutras as found in the Siddhanta Kaumudi and Laghu
    Siddhanta-Kaumudi (Incomplete). -   Sutras can be sorted either in the order of Ashtadhyayi or Siddhanta
    Kaumudi or Laghu Siddhanta-Kaumudi. -   French translation of the Sutras by Prof Renou is given (Complete). -   Provision for English Translation and Explanation is made
    (Incomplete). -   The traditional Sanskrit dictionary, Amara Kosha, is incorporated
    (Complete but unedited). -   Dhatupatha with meanings in English and Hindi (Incomplete) -   Ganapatha (Complete) -   Shabdarupa: Declension of nouns. -   Rupasiddhi: Step by Step analysis of Panini's Sutras applied for
    getting different forms of nominal stems. -   Dhaturupa (Incomplete). -   Display both in Devanagari and Roman scripts -   Printing facility for Sutras, Padapatha, Anuvrittis, Kaumudi, French
    translation etc.

**This is for those who are new to GANAKAASHTAADHYAAYI.**  
**One has to register as USER and then DOWNLOAD the free software.**  
Go to:[Register and Free Download](http://www.taralabalu.org/panini/greetings.htm)  
Click here for [Beginners:](http://www.sanskrit-lamp.org/) **Samkrita Pradipika.  
Forward this mail to those who love Sanskrit and are in search of E-Means.  
धन्योस्मि  
  
**  
--  
Aangirasa/Dr.S.Ramakrishna Sharma. M.A.,Ph.D.(Eng.Lit.),Ph.D.(Sanskrit.).  

