+++
title = "000 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2017-12-21, 09:13:28 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/oc4Pu3iQ3y0)]]



Namaste



**Request**: I am looking for a Samskruth term that would bring out the precise meaning of the term ‘ conformance’.

 If an explanation be provided on how the Samskruth term gets coined, with relevant ‘samaasa’ rules, I would be obliged.



 The issue here has a deep bearing on ‘Dictionaries- Lexicons- Translations- Linguistic appropriateness- grammar rule invocation’. specially of Computational linguistics and MT ( Machine Translation which

 depends on Language Scholars input using grammar and koshas). One can see how the meaning and usage of ‘conformance ’ has undergone change over the past four centuries and documented in 

 dictionaries. 



*Why understanding conformity is important in the above context ?*:

( From the W3C QA Framework: Specification Guidelines, section 2.1:)
Conformance is the fulfillment of specified requirements by a product, process, or service. These requirements are detailed in a specification as part of a conformance clause and in the body of the specification.

A clear presentation of conformance is crucial to successful
interoperability of implementations.





***Why this Request* ? **



1. The term ‘ conformance’ is used in many communications to mean a combined meaning of \< **Con**vergent communication + per**formance**\>.



 Recent Examples of conformance from the Web :
<https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/conformance>

- Develop and ensure conformance to requirements, specifications and interfaces. 

- "TMT is looking for self-motivated individuals who are excited by the opportunity to join a highly-visible international project that will significantly advance our understanding of the universe.," 20 Feb. 2017 

- behavior found to be not in conformance with all company policies regarding sexual harassment a woman with no interest in conformance to the dictates of fashion

- Conformance is the fulfillment of specified requirements by a product, process, or service. These requirements are detailed in a specification as part of a conformance clause and in the body of the specification.



( These example sentences are selected automatically from various online news sources to reflect current usage of the word 'conformance.' Views expressed in the examples do not represent the opinion of Merriam-Webster or its editors.)



***English Term meaning of conformance* :**

English resources list the meaning of this term, in use since 1606.



*Meaning -1*: noun : ‘conformance to international standards’, another term for conformity as modifier ‘conformance testing’ (
<https://en.oxforddictionaries.com/definition/conformance> ) 



*Meaning -2 :* conformance



Synonyms : accord, accordance, agreement, conformity, congruence, congruency, congruity, consonance, harmony, tune

Antonyms : conflict, disagreement, incongruence, incongruity, incongruousness

Related Words : compatibility; assimilation, integration; oneness, solidarity, togetherness; affinity, empathy, sympathy

Near Antonyms : contrast, discrepancy, disparateness, disparity, dissimilarity, distinction, distinctiveness, distinctness, diverseness, diversity, unlikeness; deviance, divergence; discord, discordance, dissension (also

 dissention), dissent, dissidence, disunity, friction, strife; variability, variance; incompatibility



Regards



BVK Sastry



