+++
title = "008 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2017-12-22, 23:43:41 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/oc4Pu3iQ3y0)]]



Namaste



1. The issue from basic post is to show how challenging it is to (a) get a translation of english / other language word to Samskruth and (b) when such a term is got with great difficulty, how awkward and labored
the term looks (c ) How the reverse translation and usage of such a term can create unwarranted deflection of the meaning.



This is generally understood as bi-directionality in a Truth statement like A= B also means B= A.



For Samskruth, it means a standard of ‘ Satya –Vak’, tested by the criterion : ‘ what is intended as thought ( Vivakshita) is processed according to grammar rules and articulated ( uccharita) / scripted as articulated (likhitam yathaa uktam) as ‘ padam ( sup-Ting antam).



What is heard and seen as ‘padam’ in a vakya is processed back according to the same grammar rules and reconstructed to get the ‘ embedded meaning’( Sphota/ Taatparya).



2. In the present case, ‘Conformance’ translated has satisfied the ‘Satya-Vak’ standard partially. There is a large gap that is yet to be addressed from my original post. There is also additional issues that have cropped up here by the ‘ upasargas’, a pet topic on which Dr. Narayana Joshi has presented in several posts the ‘ fixed meaning’ argument.



The term ‘अनुवृत्तिः’ triggers Samskruth reader to think of ‘ following a leader, imitation of a model, ‘ a specific Vrutti ( = Thought, like chitta- vrutti, a gloss like ‘vrutti-kaara’, a tendency like pravarutti – nivrutti ); the upasarga अनु to वृत्तिः would push it to ‘ a follow up thought’.

The communication of ‘ **conformity, to referential point’** , does not connect to \< **वृत्तिः is equivalent to "behavior**" \>. From the W3C QA Framework: Specification Guidelines, section 2.1:
Conformance is the fulfillment of **specified requirements by a product, process, or service**. These requirements are detailed in a specification as part of a **conformance clause** and in the body of the specification. A clear presentation of conformance is crucial to successful interoperability of implementations.

The translation term ‘ conformance’ is used in many communications to
mean a combined meaning of \< **Con**vergent communication + per**formance**\>. The Samskruth term may not a be single word; but also a sentence. For many Samskruth terms need a full sentence in translation to explain their meaning !



Why is there a need for one more upasarga प्र in अनु-प्र-पद्यते
? which gives a different sense than अनुवृत्तिः ? What value addition upasarga प्र brings in ?



And what would be the filtering rules that programmers would suggest to linguists to make \< machine-output as a good output> .



**This is what I am pointing as a critical exercise of ‘ Sanskrit –English Dictionary review project’, starting from Monier Williams, where the provided ‘ Translation from the Lexicon Editor needs a n audit review from Samskruth Linguist using the standards of Pada-Vytpatti and Artha- Nirukti :: Panini- Patanjali – Yaska – Amarsimha Combined methodology along with ‘Yoga – Samskrutham’ approach to help Translators and Computational linguists to get a bearing and course correction. ( A project initiated from Yoga-Samskrutham University, for which team members support is needed)**



Regards



BVK Sastry



--  

You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  

To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().



