+++
title = "005 Damodara Dasa"

+++
[[Damodara Dasa	2018-02-21, 10:42:04 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/FioGsLOllig)]]



\|\|Hare Krishna\|\|  
  
I am sorry if I sounded offensive.  
  
I have put this query in Bharatiya Vidvad Parisad because I want to  
discuss this point from the neutral point of view, as we would discuss  
with any traditional scholar. I think none of the scholars here will  
accept that because it is accepted in Gaudiya Vaisnavism, it must be  
in varnasrama tradition.  
  
I have not made my mind of either pro or against women giving mantras.  
I just came across this sloka in my regular research reading for our  
varnasrama or vedic village project going on at Gujarat. I am forced  
to do detailed research because it is a must for building up our  
community. It is not just a matter of my opinion. Even if the result  
comes opposite to my pre-opinion I must accept it because it is truth  
and that will only stay, because when you apply practically only truth  
will stay, and I am involved in future planning of the project. Thus I  
wanted neutral scholars to churn this point so that the result will be  
fruitful.  
  
It is a fact that besides some special cases in Gaudiya Sampradaya,  
there is a full lack of any instance in any other tradition, be it any  
of the four vaisnava sampradaya or sankara sampradaya or more braodly  
any gotras etc in which women give mantra. Thus it is a well known  
fact that as far as tradition is concerned, women are prohibited to  
give mantras.  
  
\[Note I am not trying to say what should or should not be done but  
just neutrally trying to understand what was the practice (be it good  
or bad that is immaterial)\].  
  
As far as pancaratra is concerned, is there any other sampradaya  
following pancaratra that has, as a rule (and not exception), women  
allowed to give mantras?  
  
Also regarding pancaratra sastra, at least in Bharadvaja Samhita,  
Ch.1, sloka 12-16 give allowance to women to receive mantras while  
slokas 38-44 prohibit them from giving mantra. Link:  
<https://archive.org/details/np_bhsamhita>  
  
\>\> When the verse say that they receive 'adhikāra' into the mantra, the adhikara is not mentioned as being partial. The very term adhikara usually implies complete acquisition of rights regarding that mantra unless otherwise stated.  
  
I am sorry. Can you please give me the source of this rule. I hav not  
heard or read it before.  
  
In my experience, in vedic vidhi (diksa in vedic mantras), all the  
dvijas have adhikara on the vedic mantras. But only brahmana can give  
vedic mantras not other. Upanayana can be performed only by a  
brahmana. Only in emergency or exceptional cases it can be done by  
others. Thus the rule which you mention doesn't seem to hold.  
  
Also while importing details of something from other sastras, those  
details which are not against the vidhi of the host sastra are to be  
imported. This is rule of mimamsa. So even if said that you import it  
from another sastra, some samanvaya and intelligence is required to be  
applied. Nowhere it is wholesale, bulk acceptance of allowances given.  

  
\>\> This is not seen anywhere at least in the Haribhaktivilasa or its commentary.  

I think in tantras mentioning worship of devi, women are specifically  
given allowance to give some mantras.  

  
\>\> Yes but since it is quoted in Haribhaktivilasa, it's authority remains intact.  

No. While trying to give quotation for a particular, whole slokas are  
imported in HBV from the source, which do contain other information  
also. Thus all the information contained in that particular sloka  
cannot be taken as the view point of the author of HBV.  

  
\>\> Please let me know if any Gaudiya Vaishnava from any century speaks of it as against being varnashram.  

At least ISKCON's Founder-acarya: A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada--  
SB 4.12.32, purport  
According to śāstric injunctions, there is no difference between  
śikṣā-guru and dīkṣā-guru, and generally the śikṣā-guru later on  
becomes the dīkṣā-guru. Sunīti, however, being a woman, and  
specifically his mother, could not become Dhruva Mahārāja’s  
dīkṣā-guru.  



