+++
title = "002 Prathosh"

+++
[[Prathosh	2011-02-05, 16:57:17 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/J1aUWS66aeA)]]



  
Dear Shri N.R Joshi,  
  
In spite of being amidst a vigorous preparation for GATE exam, I could  
not resist to answer your post.  

  
\>\>If this is true then why eternal Vedas (existent versions) carry geographical information of the particular area of the earth (northwestern part of the subcontinent bordering Afghanistan) and river names therein?  
  

This question can be answered in two ways..  
  
1) There is something called " एकवाक्यता " of Vedas, which means all  
the Veda vakyas are attributed directly to "Brahmhan" ( = Vishnu for  
Vaishnavas ). Shri Madwacharya has nicely proved this fact in many of  
his works like Rigbhashya, BramhasutraBhasya etc. Thus, all Veda  
vakyas directly say some "guna" or attribute of Bramha be it  
apparently pointing to Indra killing Vrutra, or a description of river  
or any other geographical or physical matters. To know some examples,  
refer Rigbhashya of Shri. Madwacharya. Shrutis like " सर्वे वेदाः  
सर्वे घोषाः एकैव व्याहृति: " , "नामानि सर्वाणि यमाविशन्ति " and many  
Smritis, Many Adhikaranas in Bramha Sutra substantiate this thing.  
So, even without the geographical areas being non-eternal, Vedas can  
be eternal which describes "Bramhan" by those words.  
  
2) In the Bhasya of sutra in Devataadhikarana of Bramha sutra -"शब्द  
इति चेन्नात: प्रभावात् प्रत्यक्षानुमानाभ्याम्", Shri. Madwacharya  
deals with a similar question and answers like this --  
  
The creator creates this world in each Kalpa over and again in the  
same way it is now. Thus, though the the geographical structures and  
Devas are not eternal they possess something called "Pravaahatha  
Nityatva", which means at any given point of time a Deva by name  
"Indra" exists. ( Please note its not the same person who is Indra all  
the time ). Thus the rivers and all will be in the same way always. "  
धाता यथा पूर्वं अकल्पयत्" " तस्मात् ननीद्रुशं क्वापि  
विश्वमेतद्भविश्यति " These shrutis also say the same thing.  
  
  
\>\>If these names are the sequences of phonemes as errors in readings of sages with their internal eyes, then we do not have the original they read from to prove that these are errors.If we assume these are not errors then Vedas become paurusheya. If we assume these are errors, there is no way to check the original to prove that. We are in the loop as described by Shree Pratosh  
  
Glad that you see a question there. This question is accepted and I am  
working on it and soon will come up with an answer, if God is willing  
so. Right now, I think the route of "Praamanya Swatastva" can be taken  
to answer it. I will post it once I get myself convinced completely.  

  
\>\> No body denies that Vedas have great moral principles and original ideas about creation and the creator.  
  

True. But the very existence of creator can be proved ONLY by an  
absolute Praamana or absolutely credible source which can only be an  
"Apourusheya" scripture which is absolutely credible. If not, there  
are so many authored scriptures in the world which claim atheism or  
depict the creator in wrong ways. The fact that the creator can be  
cognized only through Vedas has been nicely explained in the  
शास्त्रयोनित्वाधिकरण of Bramha sutras. So, one needs to first prove  
the Apourusheyatva or inerrancy of Vedas. Shri.Madwacharya has fairly  
proved it in one of his works Vishnu Tatva Vinirnaya.  
  
Iti Sajjana Vidheya  
  
Prathosha  
  
  
  

