+++
title = "004 rniyengar"

+++
[[rniyengar	2011-01-02, 13:37:45 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/Mt3FnnpkL0Y)]]



Thanks to Sri Pandurangi, Sri VKG and Sri Arun for their response.  
Vedic rituals prescribe and attempt at achieving extreme accuracy in  
their execution. Ritualistic rigour (purity)could have been the  
inspiration for Vedanga Jyotisha to find as accurately as possible  
“time”; particularly the Parvans. In such a situation we are led to  
believe nothing should have been a waste in a Vedic ritual prescribed  
from the Samhita times including the DP rites which has a clear  
astronomical basis. The intriguing question is what was the important  
role played by the DP-Vedi which is so accurately described in the  
Shulba Sutras? The MAnava Shulba attempts at marking the east-west  
line (Pr.s.Thya) using one of the nakshatra pairs (krittika-  
pratikrittika; Svati-chitra; shravaNa-pratishravaNa; punarvasu-  
pushya)when they are 1 yuga (equal to 86 angulas) above the horizon.  
This was obviously in the night. How closely the DP-Vedi was aligned E-  
W by this method is not yet my inquiry. The prescription shows a  
genuine idealistic effort towards achieving something very special to  
a minute detail. In such a situation what could be the significance of  
the DP-Vedi which is constructed even now? From the books I understand  
Darbha-grass is strewn on the DP-Vedi. Is this for invoking  
‘Barhishadas’, who sit on darbha? Who are these deities? Are they just  
‘pitrs’; are there others? Can we understand the role played by  
Vis’vedevaah in the DP-rites?  
  
Some may wonder why I am asking these questions. Perhaps I have to  
explain my line of thinking a bit further.  
  
In the DP-rite both the adhvaryu and yajamAna do Brahma-varaNam by  
invoking bhUpati, Bhuvanapati and bhUtapati. Apastamba-brahma  
identifies himself with the above three deities. As per vedic  
tradition the above were the elder brothers of SaucIkagni who is  
invoked and described in Rigveda 10.51-10.53. Saucikagni was brought  
to Yajn\~a by vis’vedevah numbering 3339, which is the count of nights  
when Somapaana is done by gods. Drinking moon means the dark  
fortnights (krishnapaksha). This I have already demonstrated to be the  
18 year eclipse period (wrongly called Saros attributed to the  
Chaldeans!). Brihaddevata 7.75-76 upholds the count of Visvedevah and  
their role in bringing Agni, who would naturally be the saucIka of the  
above RV hymn which gives the number (triiNi s’ataa trisahasraan.i…..  
10.52.6). Moreover DP-rites use mantras from the SaucIka hymns of RV.  
All these and a few more, diverse but minute connections point to DP-  
vedi being of considerable scientific significance.  
  
This is my approach to decipher and understand “Vedic Science”. My  
current premise is DP-rite has its Rgvedic origins in lunar eclipses.  
To see how far I can defend my stand, I have raised the above  
questions. I concede my approach is to analyze the Vedic practices and  
not to synthesize them. I realize members like Sri Arun Upadhyaya may  
have a different opinion, but then “bhhinnaruchirhi lokah.”  
  
Regards  
RN Iyengar  



\> \> RN Iyengar- Hide quoted text -  
\>  
\> - Show quoted text -

