+++
title = "007 R. Narayana iyengar"

+++
[[R. Narayana iyengar	2012-11-01, 17:44:48 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/TL6hPE7kBr0)]]



I am honoured by the mention of my name! But honestly I am not an astronomer by profession; Mathematician yes, in the sense I have spent much of my professional time working with Mathematics connected with Engineering Seismology and Structural Dynamics.Sanskritist: I am a lover of Sanskrit, butby no meansa scholar like Pt.Narayanan and many other members here. I put questions and try to rake up controversies so that I learn more about our common heritage - mathematics and otherwise. BVP has patiently tolerated me.

I knew Prof.KV Sarma through correspondence and telephonic talks. This was because of my penchant to trace the outlines of pre-siddhantic astronomy.It was to clear for myself whether the origin of Hindu mathematics and astronomy was indigenous or not. I mainly discussed with Prof.Sarma about Rahu and Ketu, since I am convinced that without understanding the status of the above two 'grahas' proper appreciation of our heritageof astronomyand mathematics is not possible. It was alwaysa delight to talk to Prof.Sarma; he wastotally rational in his approach.Personally speaking, he encouraged me to critically investigate texts starting from the Rgveda for astronomical information and thoughts.Knowing about my interest he sent several of his writings. I became a life member of his Society in Chennaibut they lost track ofme afterProf.Sarma's demise.



Why**Rāhu and Ketu?**

Siddhantatexts contain eclipse calculation along scientific lines discarding the legend of an extraneous dark planet *rāhu* causing solar and lunar eclipses. Samhitā texts written in the same period knew about comets and meteors by their generic name *ketu* and *ulkā* respectively, but comets were thought to be not amenable for computation. Varāha-mihira takes *ketu* as comet only. He also concedes that he is writing what his predecessors Parāśara, Vr.ddha Garga and others had said about comets.

Sastry and Sarma, the learned editors of the Panca-siddhāntika of Varāha-mihira, point out that the Pauliśa-siddhānta denotes the two lunar nodes as *rāhu’s-head* and *rāhu’s-tail,* both being *rāhu,* the eclipse causer as per the older tradition of the

purā[n.as](http://n.as). In the astronomical texts *pāta* was the standard word for the nodes. Gradually the science of eclipsesgot overlapped with the mystical concepts of *rāhu* the dark planetwhichwasequated with the ascending node of moon. Since there are two nodes and eclipses are possible near either of them the confusing practice of naming the descending node as *ketu* arose. Since the nodes are 180 degrees apart, in recent centuries due to popularity of horoscope astrology, the above nomenclature has been accepted as valid by several sections of the society that derive inspiration from Sanskrit literature. This has gone to the extent of using the ancient realistic synonyms of *ketu,* such as *śikhī* and *keśī,* with the invisible lunar node. Sastry and Sarma rightly point out “…there is no authority in astronomical works or purā[n.as](http://n.as) to bring in *ketu* here.”

Nīlakan.t.ha (18^(th) Cent.) in his famous gloss on the Mahābhārata, interprets almost all the astronomical verses of the epic as being astrological. In one place where a white object is said to be near star Spica he interprets this object as *ketu (*

*Śveto grahah tathā citrām samatikramya tisthati*\|\| (MB. Bhī.P. 3.11)

Further, surprisingly he explains the original statements as indicating that *rāhu* and *ketu,* who should be always 180⁰ apart, were stationed in the same sign during the Great War.

*kārtikyāh˙ param hi sangrāmārambhah tatra tulāstham arkam rāhurupaiti\| tadeva śveto grahah ketuh citrām atikrāmati svātyādau vartate\| nityam samasaptakasthau rāhu-ketū idānīm ekarāśigatau mahā anista sūcakau iti bhāvah\|\|* (Nīlakan.t.ha in his commentary on Bhī. P. 3.11. MB. Gita Press Edition)



This implies that the ascending and descending nodes had coalesced, which by no stretch of imagination can be taken as a rational interpretation of the original verses of the Great Epic.



Neugebauer,a renowned historian of astronomy, investigated the background of the Islamic pseudo-planet *Al-kaid* for which an ancient table of motion from Byzantine literature is available in the Vatican library\[*Notes on Al-kaid,* J Am Oriental Soc.,V.77\]. He points out how the word *kaid* has been correctly traced to the Hindu *ketu* on linguistic grounds by Hartman but mistakenly translated as the descending lunar node. The table actually refers to a comet, with a stated period of 144 years, observed in India probably in 722 CE near about the vernal equinox. This object has not been yet identified by modern astronomy, but there is no basis to treat this as the invisible descending lunar node.



Dhundiraja the commentator of Mudraarakshasa wrongly interprets the word 'Ketu' as 'Raahu' when the context is clearly about the appearance of a comet on a day when moon was not complete (चन्द्रम्
असम्पूर्णमण्डलं) .

The above examples should suffice to demonstrate that the historical roots of Indian Astronomy can hardly be understood without investigating ancient concepts and theories about the eclipse causer *rāhu* and the comet *ketu.* Surprisingly traditional scholars, historians of science and modern astronomers have generally ignored Indian comet observations as non-existent and blindly interpreted *ketu* as the descending node, leading to conclusions that are confusing if notabsurd. I am seriously investigating this topic and would not be surprised if 'ketu' as the descending nodewasdue tothe influence of Islamic astronomy and astrology after about 15th Century.



Thank youDr. Narayanan for indirectly highlighting that Sanskritis not just a language with a mathematical grammar to be analysed withउपसर्ग, धातु,प्रत्यय,..... but it carries a hoary A&M intellectual heritage to be studied, developedand shared withfuture generations.



Kerala school of A&Mhas been a shiningexample of the above legacy. Prof Sarma was its most recent inspirationaltorch bearer. It is heartening to know thata few Sanskrit scholars in Kerala and outside are keeping the light burning.



Kind regards



RN Iyengar



On Sat, Oct 27, 2012 at 9:08 PM, narayanan er \<[drerna...@yahoo.com]()\> wrote:  



