+++
title = "023 Dr.BVK Sastry"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry	2021-06-06, 14:15:20 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/YBZnQfdk5TE)]]



Namaste Vishvas Vasuki Mahodaya

           (1. Trail mail left below for readers reference. 2. **I am listening to the advice of seniors and forum moderators**. In view of this, I feel there is no need to respond to negative, emotional, personal outbursts and targeted personal opinions on Panini-Research-Deliverables’ in my response below.)

**Focusing on post-response specific issues**:

**Issue 1** (Tradition which sets Samskrutham:Standard Pronunciation) .

On \<clarify what tradition you refer to in association "Standard Pronunciation of Samskrutha Varna-akshara –Svaras ... technically called ... ‘Shuddha-Paatha- Upa-Desha’ ?> :

**Response (1) :** The ‘Standard Pronunciation of Samskrutha Varna-akshara –Svaras ... technically called ... ‘Shuddha-Paatha- Upa-Desha ‘ – also linked to ‘Shiva-sutras’ - is the tradition approved
and adapted by Panini-Patanjali. This is called as 'Vednaga- Shikshaa-Shaastra'.

The IPA (International Phonetic Association) standards and notations fall short in capturing the requisite precision of 'Vedanga - Shikshaa- Shaastra'. The modeling of 'visarga' in Panini-Patanjali sampradaya follows a different modelling and analytics compared to the one followed in IPA and other 'language-teaching -training disciplines'.

This is stated upfront in Patanjali Mahabhashya tradition explaining the purpose of ' Vyakarana-study'.

To learn 'Maatrukaa- Paddhati', one need to serve the 'Dvaitacharya tradition and receive 'upadesha' on'Varna-akshara-Viniyoga'.

Other options in tradition is to learn from 'Sri-Vidya-Practitioners on technicality of Beeja-akshara nyasa-vinyasa'.

One more option is to get to a ' Veda- shikshaka' who is trained in 'Shadanga- Vedanga-Vak-yoga' sampradaya. 

My earlier statement stands thus : \< Current prevalent views on how visarga should be pronounced falls short of "Panini-Shikshaa sampradaya,‘ Maatrukaa- Paddhati- Analysis, Shiva-sutra Phoneme-analysis, Vaidika-Shikshaa-sampradaya’. These are traditions for 'learning-using -Samskrutham'; The training is not for 'demonstration of lung power driven word-circus and jugglery in creating a flutter of sounds'.

**Issue 2** (Satisfying appetite of free culture):

**Response (2) :**To satisfy the 'Free Culture' appetite, there are enough 'free pages' of book accessible at the link provided for the publication. 

**Issue 3 **All other irrelevant non-issues and outbursts

**Response (3) :**There is no need to respond. The Simple conclusion: There is need to help people on how to see ‘Panini- Language- Modelling Clearly without blinkers and colored lens’.    
        This would help to resolve the challenge-statement tagged to NASA/ Dr. Briggs stands out since 1984 standing to resolve and deliver. The help neededis in derivingthe Science of 'Human-Machine- Interface Model' from Panini-Patanjali-Yaska Vedanga
Vakyoga-Samskrutham tradition.

**A little bit on genesis of this exchange**: This thread issue started from my sharing a reference to 'videos'- providing a traditional reference to discuss 'Samskruth -Articulation -Standards'. The exchange was triggered due to the response \< यद्यपि बहुत्र स्वाभिप्रायोऽन्यथाऽस्ति, - I agree to his objections, though not entirely with his conclusions. Also, certain corollaries easily branch off this regarding the purported invariance of vaidika pronunciation across generations. ... Thrilling to watch this attack on the pseudo-traditional aha-ihi-uhu cough-cough pronunciation - from a person of high-standing no less! \>

This is where I was prompted to seek more helpful elucidation of what was covered under the hood of \< स्वाभिप्रायोऽन्यथाऽस्ति \>. 

**Development to a degenerated response :** The response was completely defocused and degenerated from the focus of the issue, namely ‘Samskruth Varnakshara : Pronunciation standards by Traditional norms’. .

 In my opinion, it is critical that the basics about the design, intent, purpose of 'Paniniya Shkishaa and Vedangataa of Vyakarana' need to be concurred on this scholarly forum. Failing whichthe proliferation of negativity and false views will fill the space.

**My submission**: I welcome any one/ teamwiling to join my effort to design and deliver a 101 lesson on ‘Samskruth Varnakshara :Pronunciation standards by Traditional norms’ which can be useful for
‘Samskruth-computer-Panini Research’. The course could be subject to audit by a team of peers and learned senior scholars well versed in Samskruth Language related to Computing and Cognitive Technology. The course plans to explore the ‘Science and Technology direction of the lead – question :: 'Kimartham adhyeyam Vyakaranam' ? 'Why Shikhsaa precedes Vyakarana and Nirukta follows Vyakarana in study-prescription. The starting investigation would yield ‘ Exploration of Shiva-sutras to get at the Voice- Character set’ for ‘Programming Language Models and Processes’.

This is to set a framework to explain 'What Panini -Research means and aims for in vision of Panini Machine' .

Regards

BVK Sastry



