+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-10-10, 17:50:46 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/zKZQh-aiY6g)]]



As I had mentioned, the Ayodhya judgement is an extraordinary historical narrative, validating historical documents from a judicial perspective to verify the ownership of Ramajanmabhoomi.

  

I submit that the entire judgement should be used extensively in evaluating and presenting a historical narrative of Bharatam or Hindusthan.

  

The volumes 14 to 21 of Justice Sudhir Agarwal present this perspective and discuss elaborately the evidence, starting from Rigveda (and including, of course, the original documents of Bauddha, Gurugranthasahib and Islamic traditions and bogus testimonies of 'eminent historians'):

**  
**

**4294. **We are of the view that the historicity of Lord Ramacannot be restricted by any preconceived notion since, if anysuch attempt is made not only in respect to Lord Rama but inother matters also, that may result in havoc and will amount toplaying with the sentiments and belief of millions of peoplewhich are bestowed upon them from generations to generationand time immemorial.

**4295. **“**Rigveda Samhita” Vol. II **(Mandalas 2, 3, 4, 5)verse 3365 translated by H.H. Wilson and “Bhasya of

Sayanacarya”3365-

**श्रावयेदस्य कर्णा वाजयध्यै जु टामनु प्र दिशं मंदयध्यै**

**उद्वाव्रुशानों राधसे तुविश्मान्करात्र इन्द्रः सुतीर्थाभयम च**

*“Let (his worshipper) cause his ears to listen so as toinvigorate him (by praise), and to give him pleasure in*

*every acceptable place; and being well moistened with theSoma juice, may the vigorous Indra render the holy places(conducive) to our wealth, and free from danger.”*

**4296. Rigveda Samhita” Vol. II **(Mandalas 9, 10) of H.H.Wilson (supra), verse 9110:



**अधाई धीतिरसर्युग्रमं स्तीयें यन्न्त्यूमाः **

**अभ्यानश्म सुवितस्य भूशं अमृता नामभूम**

*“3. The sacrifice has been prepared: the invigoratingportions (of the oblation) approach the beautiful (god) of****excellent birth****, as (the waters) ****at a holy spot ****(approachthe gods): may we obtain the happiness of heaven: may wehave a real knowledge of the immortals.****Waters at a holy spot—****Sayana, as at a tirtha (sacredford) the portions of water sprinkled in the act of tarpana(libation) go to the assembly of the gods. The use of theterm is worthy of notice, as indicating a considerableadvance in legendary mythology.*

***May we have a real knowledge, etc.****--(Sayanaexplains navedasah as na na vettara vettara eva, i.e.,*

*svarupato jnatara eva, “knowing personally”, but it isdifficult to see how “not-knowers,” which is Sayana'sderivation, and also that of Panini, vi. 3. 75, to whom herefers, can come to mean “knowers.” In his comment on i.*

*34. 1. Sayana explains it as no paretam vetti, “he does notknow falsely”)”*

**4297. **The work of the Black Yajus Schools entitled“**Taittiriya Sanhita”**, Part 2, Kandas IV-VII, translated by

Arthur Berriedale Keith, first published in 1914 and the secondissue in 1967 by Motilal Banarsidass, Delhi, says:

*“vi. 1. 1. He makes a hall with beams pointing east. Thegods and men divided the quarters, the gods (obtained) theeastern, the Pitrs the southern, men the western, the Rudrasthe northern. In that he makes a hall with beams pointingeast, the sacrificer approaches the world of the gods. Hecovers it over, for the world of the gods is hidden from theworld of men.”*

**4298. **Adhyay-9, verse 381 “**Yajurveda Samhita”**,

translated by R.T.H. Griffith, third edition 2002 (first edition1997). It says:^^381-

**वाजस्य नु प्रसव आबभूवेमा च विश्वा भुवनानि सर्वतः **

**सनेमि राजा परियाति प्रजां पृशटी वर्धयामानो अस्मे स्वाहा**

*“Surely the furtherance of strength pervaded allthese existing worlds in all directions. From olden time the*

*King moves round, well knowing, strengthening all thepeople and our welfare.” (Vol. 19.pdf)*

**4305**. “**History of Dharmashastra**”, translated by**Pandurang Vaman Kane**, Part-IV Third Edition 1991 publishedby Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute Poona, Chapter XI“Tirthayatra” says:

*“All religions have laid great emphasis on thesacredness of certain localities and have either enjoined or*

*recommended with great insistence pilgrimages to them.*

***Among the five incumbent practical religious duties of a**Moslem, pilgrimage at least once in his life to Mecca**and Medina, the birth place and burial place of the**prophet Mohammad, is one. ****The four places of*

*pilgrimage for Buddhists have been the place of the birth ofBuddha (Lumbini or Rummindei), the place where heattained perfect enlightenment (Bodh Gaya), the placewhere he set in motion the wheel of dharma by deliveringhis first sermon (at Sarnath near Benares) and the placewhere he passed away into the state of nirvana (Kusinara).Vide Mahaparinibbanasutta (S.B.E. Vol. XI, p. 90). ForChristians Jerusalem has been the holiest place and noreligious community except the Christians undertook inhistoric times several great military pilgrimages. Thecrusades were launched to free the Holy Land of Christiansfrom the domination of Moslems. In spite of what Gibbonsays somewhat cynically about those who joined the*

*crusades, it must be admitted that there were thousandsamong the crusaders who risked their lives and fortunes inthe pursuit of an ideal.” (page 552)*

*“. . . . ****Benares and Ramesvara were held sacred by all**Hindus, ****whether they hailed from the north of India orfrom the peninsula.” (page 553)*

*“The word ****tirtha occurs frequently in the Rgveda and**other Vedic samhitas****. In several passages of the Rgveda tirtha appears to mean a road or a way (e.g. In Rg. I, 169,6 'tirthe naryah paumsyani tasthuh', Rg. I. 173. 11 'tirthenaccha tatrsanam-oko', Rg. IV. 29. 3 'karan-na Indrahsutirthabhayam ca'). In some places tirtha may be taken tomean a ford in a river, as in Rg. VII. 47. 11 'sutirthamarvatoyathanu no nesatha sugam &c.', Rg. I. 46. 8'aritram vam divas-prthu tirthe sindhunam rathah'. In Rg.X. 31. 3 'tirthe na dasmamupa yantyumah', tirtha probablymeans 'a holy place'.” ( page 554)“. . . . .so some localities on the earth are held to be veryholy. ****Tirthas are held to be holy (on three grounds, viz.)**on account of some wonderful natural characteristic of**the locality ****or on ****account of the peculiar strikingness (or***

***grandeur) of some watery place or on account of the fact**that some (holy) sages resorted to them (for bathing,**austerities &c.)****. Tirtha, therefore, ****means a locality or spot**or expanse of water which gives rise to the accumulation**of righteousness (merit) owning to its own peculiar**nature ****without any adventitious circumstance (such as thepresence of Salagrama near it).” (pages 554-555)“In the Rigveda waters, rivers in general and certainnamed rivers are referred to with great reverence as holyand are deified. In Rg. VII. 49 the refrain of all four versesis 'may the divine waters protect me' (ta apo devir-ihamamavantu). In Rg. VII. 49. 1 waters are spoken of aspurifying (punanah). Rg. VII 47, X. 9, X. 30 are hymnsaddressed to waters as divinities. They are said to purify aman not only physically but are also invoked to rid a manof all sins and lapses from the right path.” (page 555)“. . . . therefore visiting holy places is superior tosacrifices.” (page 562)*

*  
*

**4306**. The above book in Chapter XIV “Gaya” says:*“Four of the most important and holy tirthas have*

*been dealt with at some length so far. It is not possible inthe space allotted to the section on tirthas to pursue thesame procedure as regards other famous tirthas. It isproposed to devote a few pages to each of half a dozen ormore tirthas and then to give a somewhat comprehensivelist of tirthas with a few reference in the case of each. Butbefore proceeding further reference must be made tocertain popular groupings of tirthas. There is a ****group of**seven cities that are deemed to be very holy ****and thenbestows of moksa. They are ****Ayodhya****, Mathura, Maya (i.e.Haridvara), Kasi, Kanchi, Avantika (i.e. Ujjayini),Dvaraka. In some works it is Kanti and not Kanci that ismentioned. Badarinatha, Jagannatha Puri, Ramsevara and*

*Dvaraka—these four are styled Dhama. There are said tobe twelve Jyotirlingas of Siva, according to the Sivapuranaviz. Somanatha in Saurastra, Mallikarjuna on Srisaila hill(in Karnul District and about 50 miles from the Krishnastation on the G.I.P. Railway), Mahakala (in Ujjayini),Paramesvara in Omkara-Ksetra (an island in theNarmada), Kedara in the Himalayas, Bhimasankara(north-west of Poona at the source of the Bhima river) inDakini, Visvesvara in Banares, Tryambakesvara on thebanks of the Gautami, i.e. Godavari (near Nasik),Vaidyanatha in Citabhumi, Nagesa in Darukavana,Ramesvara in Setubandha and Ghasnesa in Sivalaya (i.e.the modern shrine at the village of Elura, 7 miles fromDevagiri or Daulatabad). The Sivapurana (Kotirudra—samhita) chap. 1 names the twelve Jyotirlingas and*

*chapters 14-33 narrate the legends connected with thetwelve lingas. The Skandapurana I (Kedarakhanda) chap.7 verses 30-35 enumerate several lingas including most ofthe twelve Jyotirlingas. The Barhaspatyasutra (edited byDr. F.W. Thomas) mentions eight great tirthas each ofVisnu, Siva and Sakti, that yield all siddhis.” (pages 677-678).*

*  
*

Full text of over 8000 pages of Ayodhya verdict:

*  
*

*<https://www.yousendit.com/download/WTNLRGx4ZEs3N0R2Wmc9PQ>(84mb)*



<https://www.yousendit.com/download/WTNLRGw2eFhWRC92Wmc9PQ>(47mb)

