+++
title = "006 VKG"

+++
[[VKG	2011-04-11, 07:06:36 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/idnyKKezSBs)]]



Pranaam

Fine with the derivation of Abi - Sabde.

If it is Vidhi LiN. What about LiNassalopo(a)nantyasya? Where is the  
special exception?

Actually, it is Asheer LiN. Hence, no Vikarana is required - I  
contend.  
Muc + Seeyut + A = Muksheeya. (It is as simple as this).

In fact, another seeming error is that -

Wherever there is a Vikarana Pratyaya - it is sandwiched between the  
Lakaara and Dhaatu; not in between.

Take Modeya, Eedheeya etc.

Mud + Sha + Seeyut+ It (At)  
Moda (after Guna) + Seey + A  
Moda + Eeya (Sakaara Lopa from LiNassaloponantyasya)  
Modeya

(Let us understand that Seeyut, is pertaining to LiN, Li\~Naseeyut.)

---  
If it is Muksheeya

The Vikarana Pratyaya cannot come after Seeyut.  
Muc + Seeyut + Sha + A = This dispensation is not seen by me so far.  
If someone enlightens us, we commend.

More instances/ explanations are welcome.

With High Regards  
Vamshi Krishna Ghanapathi

  
On Apr 10, 1:07pm, subrahmanyam korada \<[korad...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  
\> namo vidvadbhyah  
\>  
\> Sri VK Ghanapathi  
\>  
\> 1. dhAtUnAm anekArthatvam  
\>  

\> really , this is another instance and many more across \*Panini .  
\> BhImasena\*had just given the popular meanings of the roots .  
\>  
\> The interest is in -- a \*dhAtu\* , generally means '\*s'abda\*' , i.e. a \*vis.aya  
\> of s'rotra\* , denotes something related to \*dr.s.t.i , i.e. a
vis.aya of  
\> netra .  
\> \*

  
\> 2. two akAras - was this necessary ? how is this possible ?  
\>  

\> As has already ben explained by Sri Bhatta - the \*Vikaran.apratyaya , i.e.

  
\> tudAdibhya.h s'a.h , is a must as Vidhilin' is SArvadhAtuka (lat., lot. and  

\> lan' also) . It is 'nitya' .\*  
\>  
\> As soon as one starts --\* muc + it. .(in Vidhilin') , s'a\* would arrive on  
\> the seen .  
\>  
\> Even if we keep in mind - \*'it.o't \*' the \*s'a\* will come following  
\> the\*LaukikanyAya -- parjanyavat laks.an.apravr.tti.h  
\> \*( a cloud rains on a river , ocean etc. also - whether it is required or

  
\> not it would just go .  
\>  

\> Therefore , we are forced to resort to \*PararUpam .\*  
\>  
\> Sri Bhatta  
\>  
\> \*abi - is anudAttet\* and as such it is \*Atmanepada\* . How come '\* ambati =  
\> naks.atraparyantam gacchati' ?\*

  
\> Please provide if there is any other version .  
\>  

\> \*N.vul\* also came to my mind . But again we have to go to \*'litsvara' ,  
\> n\~itsvara\* etc' and it may take the discussion too far from the original

  
\> question .  
\>  
\> As most of our valuable books were burnt by Mlecchas , it is difficult to  
\> ascertain as to where Bhattabhaskara said so .  
\>  

\> \*Madhaviyadhatuvrtti , Praudhamanorama , Brhacchabdendusekhara \*etc also did

  
\> not say anything clearly in this regard .  
\>  
\> But we are happy that the questioner (not for glory) may not get such an  
\> analysis in any particular book and here we provide .  
\>  
\> I am thankful to all the scholars for the cooperation .Any further  
\> discussion is welcomed .  
\>  
\> dhanyo'smi  
\>  

\> 2011/4/10 hnbhat B.R. \<[hnbha...@gmail.com]()\>  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\> \> 2011/4/10 VKG \<[vkghanapa...@gmail.com]()\>



