+++
title = "003 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2011-07-25, 19:32:40 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/Nj45onf26UQ)]]



Namaste Dasgupta:

  

I do have some information on various ingredients listed in your query, however, I am not clear about what you are really looking for?

  

The question what food helps us pronounce properly is absurd. No food can help but there are many items that can certainly impede speech, such as beetle-nut, tobacco. The real food that can possibly correct pronunciation heard would be from your own "guru" or "sampradaaya" and/or a "teacher".

  

Sanskrit is a wonderful language that can certainly help, now having realized it Britain is making is compulsory in British school system. Where as India seems to be going in the opposite direction !!

  

As you probably know that even after sanskR^ita language got firm roots of regulation from paaNini, the natural tendencies of praakR^ita stiil continued and continues to affect the pronunciation. This applies to sanskR^ita scholars as well. j\~n is pronounced gya, OR dnya OR gn (especially from northern India). maithili pronounce "Sh" as "kha" (khaT shastraaNi). Bengali's pronounce "sh", "Sh" & "s" pnly as "Sh".
In Asaama takes this to the next level by changing all thes three into "ha" I recall a famous shloks that demonstrates this point.##  
aashiirvaadaM na gR^ihviiyata puurvadheshanivaasinaH \|  
shataayuriti vaktavye hataayuritivaadinaam \|\|  

  

Can someone give me the exact source for this shloka.

  

As mentioned above, I will be happy to share the information I have with you after I get a clear picture about your needs. This week I will be traveling and will not have access to the Internet or computer. I will respond after my return. We can always continue the discussion off-list so that it does not go beyond the scope and objectives of this list.

  

  

Best wishes,

  

Dr. Yadu  

  

  

  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**From:** Polumee Dasgupta \<[poulomee...@yahoo.co.in]()\>  
**To:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
**Sent:** Sunday, July 24, 2011 11:05 PM  
**Subject:** {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Question  
  





