+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-10-13, 16:34:41 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/jU590hqm1gI)]]



Position:Comparative Historyand Theory of Textual Practices, Research  
Fellow (2 year appointment),Max Planck Institute for the History of  
Science,Berlin  
\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*  
  
  
Max Planck Institute for the History of Science, 2  
Two-year Position  
Institution Type: Nonprofit  
Location: Germany  
Position: Research Professional  
  
  
The Max Planck Institute for the History of Science, Berlin (Department II; Director: Prof.Lorraine Daston) seeks an outstanding junior scholar for a two-year position (to begin no later than1 September 2011) as Research Fellow in conjunction with the research project Comparative History and Theory of Textual Practices, organized byProfessor Anthony Grafton(Princeton University) and Professor Glenn Most (Scuola Normale Pisa/University of Chicago)(details concerning the project may be found at[http://www.mpiwg-berlin.mpg.de/en/research/projects/DeptII_GraftonMost_Canonial/index_html](http://www.mpiwg-berlin.mpg.de/en/research/projects/DeptII_GraftonMost_Canonial/index_html)). Candidates should hold a doctorate in the history of the human sciences,history of scienceor related field at the time the position begins and show evidence of scholarly promise in the form of publications or other achievements. A previous postdoctoral position is desirable but not essential. Research projects may concern any culture or historical period (including the present). Although projects must have ahistory of science component, both the human and natural sciences are included under that rubric and additional relevant disciplinary perspectives are welcome. Possible topics include: The methodologies applied to various textual practices (collecting, editing, commenting, translating, transmitting) in one or more periods or cultures The material culture of selecting, collecting, preserving, classifying, and transmitting literary texts (e.g. libraries, schools, monasteries, universities, and data bases) The history of key ideas associated with textual practices (e.g. text, author, tradition, cultural heritage) The ways in which textual practices shape and are shaped by the study of the natural world The Max Planck Institute for the History of Science is an international andinterdisciplinary research institute([http://www.mpiwg-berlin.mpg.de/en/index.html](http://www.mpiwg-berlin.mpg.de/en/index.html)). The colloquium language is English; it is expected that candidates will be able to present their own work and discuss that of others fluently in that language. Applications may however be submitted in German, English, French, Spanish, or Italian. The position is primarily devoted to research, with no teaching and minimal administrative duties (most of which will relate to the organization of departmental research projects). It is ranked at the BAT IIA level in the German system, which roughly corresponds to that of Lecturer in Britain, Assistant Professor in North America, and Matre de confrences inFrance. Salary is set by both the positions rank and individual factors; please address specific questions to Ms. Claudia Paass ([pa...@mpiwg-berlin.mpg.de]()). Candidates are requested to submit a curriculum vitae (including list of publications), aresearch proposalon a topic related to the project (750 words maximum), and names and addresses (preferably including email) of three referees (who have already been contacted by the applicant to assure their willingness to submit letters byJanuary 7, 2011should the applicant be among the finalists for the position) to Max-Planck-Institut fur Wissenschaftsgeschichte Abt. Personal/WiMi Archives Boltzmannstrase 22 14195 Berlin Germany (Electronic submission is also possible:[rh...@mpiwg-berlin.mpg.de]()) byDecember 3, 2010. Finalists for the position will be informed byDecember 22, 2010and asked to come for an interviewon January 25, 2011(travel expenses covered by the Institute). For questions concerning the research project and Department II, please contact Prof. Lorraine Daston ([lda...@mpiwg-berlin.mpg.de]()); for administrative questions concerning the position and the Institute, please contact Mr. Jochen Schneider ([j...@mpiwg-berlin.mpg.de]()). Scholars of all nationalities are welcome to apply; applications from women are especially welcomed. TheMax Planck Societyis committed to employing more handicapped individuals and encourages them to apply.  
  
  
Contact: Max-Planck-Institut fr Wissenschaftsgeschichte Abt. Personal/WiMi Archives Boltzmannstrae 22 14195 Berlin Germany  
  
Website:<http://www.mpiwg-berlin.mpg.de/en/research/projects/DeptII_GraftonMost_Canonial/index_html>  
  

  

Position: History of Colonialism and Colonial Subjects, Assistant Professor (tenure-track),University of Utah  
\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*  
  
University of Utah, History  
Entry-level tenure-track Assistant Professor specializing in the History of Colonialism and Colonial Subjects  
  
Institution Type:College / University  
Location:Utah, United States  
Position: Assistant Professor  
  
  
The Department of History at the University of Utah seeks applications for an appointment of an entry-level tenure-track Assistant Professor specializing in the History of Colonialism and Colonial Subjects. Geographic area and chronological period of specialty open. Successful candidates will be expected to teach at all levels of the undergraduate and graduate curriculum. This should include teaching undergraduate upper-division courses on the history of colonialism, as well as courses in their geographical or other area of specialty. They should also be able to work with current faculty to develop and staff graduate fields related to the history of colonialism and colonial subjects.  
  
Send a letter of application, c.v., at least three letters of recommendation, samples of written work, teaching evaluations, and other supporting documentation to: James R. Lehning, Chair, University of Utah, Department of History,215 S. Central Campus Drive, Salt Lake City, Utah 84112-0311. All application materials must be received byFriday, November 19, 2010to receive full consideration.  
  
TheUniversity of Utah valuescandidates who have experience working in settings with students from diverse backgrounds, and possess a strong commitment to improving access to higher education for historically underrepresented students.  
  
The University of Utah is fully committed to affirmative action and to its policies of nondiscrimination and equal opportunity in all programs, activities, and employment. Employment decisions are made without regard to race, color, national origin, sex, age, status as a person with a disability, religion, sexual orientation,gender identityor expression, and status as a protected veteran. The University seeks to provide equal access forpeople with disabilities. Reasonable prior notice is needed to arrange accommodations. Evidence of practices not consistent with these policies should be reported to: Director, Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action,[(801) 581-8365](tel:(801)%20581-8365)(V/TDD).  
  
  
Contact: James R. Lehning, Chair, University of Utah, Department of History, 215 S. Central Campus Drive, Salt Lake City, Utah 84112-0311  
  
Website:[http://www.history.utah.edu](http://www.history.utah.edu/)

  

