+++
title = "009 Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)	2014-01-08, 04:51:29 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/LCJpMbMywxY)]]



Namaste  
  
1. The entire thread of discussion was interesting ; yet inconclusive on the issue. I will make a follow up question: How would one read 'sa-hRu-da-ya' (art -appreciator) - 'su-hR-t'(Friend) ? or even the Panini sutra : hR^ikroranyatarasyAm (1-4-53); hru hvareshChandasi ( 7-2-31) ? Should these sutras be read as Rh-kroranyatarasyAm (1-4-53); Rh- vha-reshChandasi?  
  
2. All the articulation is governed by the realistic experience of the ear. The physiological / machine generated wave for \< brah-ma> is NOT the same as \<Bram-ha>. So what is the right or better, the original Paninian /Vedic pronunciation of the 'ShishTa's?  
\< surely, Divine Speech is infested with अपभ्रंशाः - दैवी वाग् व्यवकीर्णेयम् अशक्तैरभिधातृभिः । \> and now with ' foreign language phonetics ( mlecchita)'.  
  
3. The 'h' sound English pronunciation standard can be seen at the sites.:  
<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPA_vowel_chart_with_audio>  
<http://www.antimoon.com/how/pronunc-soundsipa.htm>  
<http://www.phonetics.ucla.edu/course/chapter1/chapter1.html>  
  
The ' h' spelling phonetic value of English simply does not map to the ' Samskrutham - 'ha' sound. Especially in the pronunciation in 'gunita' or 'samyukta'  
Mode. The mapping is only partial.  
  
4. Please do not make knee jerk reaction that 'Panineeyas are the ShihsTa's' ; or the 'Vedic pronunciation is the authentic one'. There has been too many variations in the 'uccharaNa' of Samskrutham (Bhashaa and Chandas) with the overlay of the 'regional /prakrit phonetics'. In one of the mails, the note from Kaiyata was marked \<मृदून् = अपभ्रंशान् इत्यर्थः (कैयटः) \>. The issue of male-female pronunciation is not the point. Even female samskruthamm scholars have been there throughout the history of india.  
  
5. Now the question is this. How would one read 'sa-hRu-da-ya' (art -appreciator) - 'su-hR-t'(Friend) ? or even the Panini sutra : hR^ikroranyatarasyAm (1-4-53); hru hvareshChandasi ( 7-2-31) ? Should these sutras be read as Rh-kroranyatarasyAm (1-4-53); Rh- vha-reshChandasi?  
  
If we cannot answer this question here, how are we going to account for the 'Sindhu /Hindu' linked 'sa-ha' shift ? How is it that the vedic purusha sukta has retained the pronunciation 'sahsra sheershaa purushaH, sahasrAkshaH' sahasrapaat' ; how are we saying sahanaavavatu ?  
  
6. My understanding of the critical word \<prasaranti> in the reference : कौण्डिन्यशिक्षा - हकारान्नणमा ऊर्ध्वाः पूर्वं तु प्रसरन्ति हात् । - would be : There is a overlap of the sounds; and the rule is: In the pronunciation, before 'ha' part is complete, the uttara-bhaaga of 'ha' is overlapped by the first-part of the later sounds'. This is the intention of the speaker; and the way the sounds are constructed in the listening. When one listens ' ahnAm' (ketuH) in veda-mantra, one does not say in pronunciation as 'anhAm ketuH'. This happens in almost all 'samyukta akshara pronunciation' and the 'beeja mantra' pronunciations.  
  
I would stand for correction of my views from the learned scholars.  
  
Regards  
BVK Sastry  
  
  
-----Original Message-----  
From: [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() \[mailto:[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\] On Behalf Of N.R.Joshi  
Sent: Tuesday, 07 January, 2014 12:54 PM  
To: [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Englis h spelling of Sanskrit word  
  
  
Jan 7, 2014  
  
Respected Scholars, Namakaram !  
Dear Prof Korada and Dr. H.N.Bhat  
  
Many thanks to Prof Korada and Dr. H.N.Bhat for enlighten us in correct pronunciation of certain Sanskrit words. I make sure I understand in connection with Brahma. So Brahma is correct and Bahama is wrong. The word Brahma should be pronounced as Bramha/ Am I correct?  
  
I have one more question. How do we write Hansa(Swan), Dhvans (destroy), Sanskaara (impressions)in English? What nasal (Anunaasika) should we use? BVP becomes enjoyable with scholars like Korada and H.N.Bhat. Thanks. N.R.Joshi  

  
  
  
Please note: message attached  
  
From: Subrahmanyam Korada \<[kora...@gmail.com]()\>  
To: "[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()" \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  

Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Englis h spelling of Sanskrit word  
Date: Tue, 7 Jan 2014 22:26:49 +0530  
  
  
  
  
-----  
No virus found in this message.  
Checked by AVG - [www.avg.com](http://www.avg.com)  
Version: 2014.0.4259 / Virus Database: 3658/6982 - Release Date: 01/07/14  
  

