+++
title = "019 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2014-01-10, 23:20:34 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/LCJpMbMywxY)]]



Jan 10 2014  
  
Respected Scholars, Namaskar!  
  
VarNavAda is answer.  
  
Dr. Ajit Gargeshvari has raised relevant question. Sanskrit scholars would like everybody to pronounce Sanskrit words correctly. It preserves purity of Sanskrit and it may even offer merit for obtaining Swarga or Brahmaloka in the next life. That is fine. However language is river. It is going to flow and going to undergo changes. I described before on BVP the Linguistic Principle of Least Efforts. People reduced Chandra to Chandar and Indra to Indar. It is easy to say. This happens in all languages. From pure Sanskrit of the ancient Indian Brahmana Shistas, now India has more than 12 regional impure languages. If the language serves purpose of communication in everyday life, then the language is fulfilling its existence. Here question of pure and impure is irrelevant.  
  
Prof Korada mentioned two word pairs in his posting.(1) Sakrit and Shakrit (2) Sakala and Shakala. It made me laugh because it is good material for promoting my VarNavAda. Here with the change of a single phoneme (VarNa) meaning is changed. So in my opinion for communication of right meaning, right pronunciation of Sanskrit words is required. This becomes obvious in hundreds of Sanskrit words only when one uses VarNavAda (each Sanskrit phoneme is associated with specific semantic element consistent with physical properties of sounds of phonemes).  
  
With VarNavAda, ancient Indian philosophical concepts start resonating with sounds of words. Once the student learns this internal beauty of Sanskrit words, he will start enjoying Sanskrit and makes effort to say it correctly. Correct pronunciation of course is learnt through listing (Shruti) to the right speaker of Sanskrit.  
Thanks. N.R.Joshi  
  
--------------------------------------------------  
  
  
  
  
  
Please note: message attached  

  
From: Ajit Gargeshwari \<[ajit.gar...@gmail.com]()\>  
To: भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत् \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Englis h spelling of Sanskrit word  
Date: Tue, 7 Jan 2014 22:47:20 +0530  
  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
Do THIS before eating carbs &#40;every time&#41;  
1 EASY tip to increase fat-burning, lower blood sugar & decrease fat storage  

<http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3141/52d0331e2af72331d1878st01vuc>  

