+++
title = "002 Shrisha Rao"

+++
[[Shrisha Rao	2009-11-15, 15:10:58 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/W3RHjtEia1U)]]



El nov 15, 2009, a las 1:33 p.m., Veeranarayana Pandurangi escribiÃ³:

\> dear all the members. thanks to Dr. Prasad, we came to know this.  
\> this is a terrifically twisted storytelling. I urge all the esteemed  
\> members of BVP to urge the editor of Frontline to apologise for  
\> false propoganda. the ID to write is [fron...@thehindu.co.in]()  
\> please do not forget to mention your academic positions along with  
\> your individual mails.

I'm afraid it will not serve any purpose. We are not a pressure group  
of any significance, and our outrage has no value. The Hindu and  
Frontline are well known for their Marxist leanings, and they will  
just ignore us. There are many such pieces to be outraged by in the  
Hindu and other publications, in case anyone is interested \[\*\].

Plus, the article appeared several months ago, and a response to it is  
not likely to be considered topical.

\> we also need to send a letter to editor of frontline on behalf of  
\> BVP. I hope everybody will agree.

The idea or ideology of the author of that article is summarized in  
the final sentence of that article:

"Can India really call itself a secular republic when it pours public  
resources into promoting the majority religion through deemed  
universities?"

It does not take too much thought to realize that this is a so-called  
"loaded question," or more particularly a question based on a false  
presumption, like "Have you stopped beating your wife?" or "Is the  
present king of France bald?" If we want to make a difference, this  
false presumption must be attacked head on through meaningful,  
sustained scholarship that wins public support. Such a letter as  
proposed is not likely to be effective.

\[\*\] For instance, see <http://www.nytimes.com/2002/08/17/arts/>  
17COW.html; the book itself is at <http://tinyurl.com/ykzz9nj> .

Regards,

Shrisha Rao

\> veeranarayana

