+++
title = "000 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2016-05-12, 02:47:06 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/qYxMXwOakfs)]]



May 11, 2016



Dear Tapati Sinha,



I read the whole article on Croatia. It has a lot of details.

Few years ago I went to see late Shree Satya Sai Baba. There I came couple of visitors from Croatia. They have identification on their back as HRAT. I asked them about it. They say it is the ancient name of our country now called Croatia. I realized immediately the name could be related to Harahati or Sarasvati.



Then in 2007 in UT Austin I attended conference of Vedic workshop. I was sitting next to a white professor. After mutual introduction I asked him what is meant by HRAT. He said it is the ancient name of our country. It is Sarasvati. My interest was in VarNavaada of Sanskrit.



One theory is that Aryans from the west brought Sanskrit to the ancient land of the subcontinent. I said ok. Let us visit first the ancient history of Afghanistan. That visit did not stop there. It lead to me the ancient history of Iran, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Kirghizstan, Kazkhastan, all way the north pole and then in the west the ancient history of Celts occupying the west and even threatening the Roman empire. It was very wonderful journey.



It all comes in my book (not published yet) on Mahabharata.



When I was convinced that Sanskrit did not come from outside to India, I concentrated on my research on VarNavaada. Thanks Tapati for sharing information on Croatia. N.R.Joshi.  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: Tapati Sinha \<[tapati...@gmail.com]()\>  
To: Bharatiya Vidvat parishad \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Re: {&#2349;&#2366;&#2352;&#2340;&#2368;&#2351;&#2357;&#2367;&#2342;&# 2381;&#2357;&#2340;&#2381;&#2346;&#2352;&#2367;&#2359;&#2340;&#2381;} Sanskr it outside India  
Date: Wed, 11 May 2016 10:59:08 +0530  
  

It will be nice if you can share those details in this platform.

  

On Wed, May 11, 2016 at 3:04 AM, N.R.Joshi \<[gira...@juno.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> > May 10, 2016 >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Thanks Tapati Sinha, I got the paper now. I met a professor from > Croatia in 2007. He told me many things about Saraswati. NRJOSHI.  
>   
> ---------- Original Message ----------  
> From: Tapati Sinha \<[tapati...@gmail.com]()\>  
> To: Bharatiya Vidvat parishad \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
> Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Sanskr it outside India  
> Date: Tue, 10 May 2016 19:17:16 +0530  
>   
> > 
> > Here I am sending the article as attachment which I had downloaded. >
> 
> > 
> > --  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>. >
>   
>   
> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
> [**KooBuzz News**  
> 39 Still Sexy Bond Girls Then And Now  
> ](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/57325437c518f5437110fst01vuc)<http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/57325437c518f5437110fst01vuc> >
> 
> > --  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.  
> > 



--  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**Better Finances**  
New Rule In Local Area  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/5733a13325c58213231bcst03vuc)<http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/5733a13325c58213231bcst03vuc>

