+++
title = "000 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2014-11-09, 05:48:57 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/zyZrqjiUlSY)]]



Nov 8, 2014



"Just to clarify, Palsule's "Yubhātaḥ Saṃskṛtam Prati" is a not a literary work, but a book of historical linguistics, describing the development of Sanskrit from Indo-European (yu-bhā is a short form for yuro-bhāratīya = Indo-European)."



I did not read this book. I read the book T.S.Burrow on the similar topic. I read the book of Gune on comparative philology. I have a marathi book by Raajavaade. This book completely unravel development of Sanskrit from ancient left over remnants from primitive languages.



On the other hand continuously hear that Sanskrit is Daivee vaak. Where is the truth? I am confused. We talk so many other things on this list. Is this topic not important?

If Sanskrit is developed from earlier some left over language,then what is the point of discussion for hundreds of years on Sphotavada and VarNavada ? Please help me to remove my confusion. ThansNRJOSHI

  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: "Madhav M. Deshpande" \<[madha...@gmail.com]()\>  
To: [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Re: g b palsule&mahadevapandeya  
Date: Thu, 6 Nov 2014 15:35:38 -0800 (PST)  
  

Just to clarify, Palsule's "Yubhātaḥ Saṃskṛtam Prati" is a not a literary work, but a book of historical linguistics, describing the development of Sanskrit from Indo-European (yu-bhā is a short form for yuro-bhāratīya = Indo-European). Among his other literary works are a Sanskrit drama "samānam astu vo manaḥ" and an epic poem "Vīravaināyakam" on the life of Savarkar.



Madhav Deshpande  
  
On Thursday, 6 November 2014 05:03:10 UTC-5, ajit.gargeshwari wrote:

> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > Some of his literary works of G.B.Palsule are Tuka Vakti, Yubhatah > Samskrtam Prati, Agnija, Dhanyoham Dhanyoham, Bhasohasah. As Ushaji > mentioned his commemoration volume is good source for more information > and further leads >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > With reference To Mr. Gasūns remark Dhatu Patha is not a literary work > and you should know it better than me. >
> 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Regards  
> Ajit Gargeshwari  
> न जायते म्रियते वा कदाचिन्नायं भूत्वा भविता वा न भूयः।  
> अजो नित्यः शाश्वतोऽयं पुराणो न हन्यते हन्यमाने शरीरे।।2.20।। >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > On Wed, Nov 5, 2014 at 9:09 PM, Dr. k. Viswanathan > \<[kviswanat...@gmail.com](http://webmailab.juno.com/webmail/new/DISABLEDSCRIPT:)\> > wrote:  
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > >   
> > sir,  
> > I'm in cerch of their > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > works in general and poetry, drama etc in particular. So, any > > infermation is useful. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > >   
> > On 11/04/2014 09:30 PM, Mārcis > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > Gasūns wrote: > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > > 
> > > > > > Is Palsule's dhatupatha concordance a literary work?  
> > >   
> > > On Tuesday, 4 November 2014 16:56:06 UTC+3, kviswanathanwarrier > > > wrote: > > > > > > >   
> > > > sir,  
> > > > I wish to know the literary works of g.b. palsule & > > > > mahadevapandeya in  
> > > > sanskrit, along with a note on their biography. > > > > > > 
> > > > > > --  
> > > निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
> > > ---  
> > > You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > > > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> > > To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, > > > send an email to > > > [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com](http://webmailab.juno.com/webmail/new/DISABLEDSCRIPT:).  
> > > To post to this group, send email to > > > [bvpar...@googlegroups.com](http://webmailab.juno.com/webmail/new/DISABLEDSCRIPT:).  
> > > Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
> > > For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 



--  
निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
---  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**Map Your Flood Risk**  
Find Floodplan Maps, Facts, FAQs, Your Flood Risk Profile and More!  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/545ea981c36e429817401st04vuc)[floodsmart.gov](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/545ea981c36e429817401st04vuc)

