+++
title = "005 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2011-10-02, 08:41:27 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/FtArb_45Gg0)]]



Namaste Prof Iyengar:  

  

Indeed this could be an interesting challenge for a Ph.D Student.

  

Here one needs to consider the region or place where theses mule carts or horses were used?

In order to bring the distance in perspective; does the text mentions or clarify terrain, such as, desert plain, with fine sand or pebbles & rocks, or was it mountainous region or a well traveled forest path?  

  

Dr. Joshi's question is also interesting because mules are supposed to be more useful in mountain region. An excellent example can be the traditional use of mules for going down to the bottom on Grand Canyon. Horses rarely venture these trails. The reason is that eyes of mules are more towards the sides as compared to the horse. This provides them (mules) a better judgment on hilly trails.  

  

So use of mules could be providing some clues about the topography of the region.  

  

Best regards,

  

Dr. Yadu

  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**From:** rniyengar \<[narayana...@gmail.com]()\>

  
**To:** भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत् \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  

**Sent:** Saturday, October 1, 2011 6:59 PM

  
**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} How much distance a horse was expected to travel in a day  

  
My previous post stands corrected with the exact text below.  
Dhritarastra is talking to Vidura and not Krishna. He is mentioning  
what all gifts he will give Krishna. It is not khara-ratha but with  
ashvatari. The speed of 14 yojana per day is not changing. The text is  
the BORI edition as transliterated by the Japanese.  
  
  



