+++
title = "000 Dr. T. Ganesan"

+++
[[Dr. T. Ganesan	2012-03-17, 08:45:09 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/bxZ-mOGUEKo)]]



Very correctly said.

Karma and Reincarnation -- are the two of the fundamental doctrines of all the  
Darsana-s (except Caarvaaka) including Buddhisma and Jainism.  
One can not so easily brush them aside under the garb of Scientific attitude.  
If at all one believes in the scriptures of our Sanatana Dharma, nowhere it is  
said in them that 'one need not believe in these doctrines unless one is  
convinced'.

If that is so, then one need not believe in the existence of Atma or Brahma,  
which obviously cannot be demonstrated in the 'laboratory'or 'scientifically  
proved'.  
This type of views under the garb of scientific attitude borders on agnosticism  
and will lead only to that.  
Ganesan

\> Dear Rajaram,  
\>  
\> Law of Karma is a fundamental doctrine of Indian systems of religion. There  
\> is a mass literature on this subject one can find continuous and continued  
\> references to this doctrine right from vedic literature to literature of  
\> modern times. You can read PV kane's history of Dharmashastra Volume 5 part  
\> 2 for a synopsis.  
\>  
\> You can also read more Ican provide you a list of books on the subject if  
\> required.  
\>  
\> The law of karma does not depend on ones personal belief it is a  
\> fundamental law.  
\>  
\> You can also read Budhhist and Jain books on this subject.  
\>  
\> One cannot dismiss these ancient doctrines, without a proper and detailed  
\> studies.  
\>  
\> Science has it domain and limitation so does religion and beliefs .  
\>  
\> Regards  
\> Ajit Gargeshwari  
\>  
\> 2012/3/16 Navaratna Rajaram \<[rajaramn...@gmail.com]()\>  
\>  
\>\>  
\>\> Reincarnation and/or rebirth is a belief, not a scientifically  
\>\> established fact. It is not essential for a Hindu to believe in  
\>\> reincarnation-- or believe in anything that he or she is not convinced of.  
\>\>  
\>\> Believers in rebirth trot out the standard pseudo-scientific method of  
\>\> arguing from a few anectodes and offering them as 'proof'. This is what  
\>\> believers in other pseudo-sciences (like astrology) also do.  
\>\>  
\>\> Had their been any scientific evidence, scientists would have turned  
\>\> it into a major discipline or a sub-discipline of neuroscience or something  
\>\> else. It would be highly profitable. Even psychology, a bordeline science,  
\>\> if a science at all has not adopted the idea. Only parapsychologists on the  
\>\> fringes of psychology talk about it.  
\>\>  
\>\> N.S. Rajaram  
\>\>  
\>\>

Dr. T. Ganesan  
Senior Researcher in Saivasiddhanta  
French Institute of Pondicherry  
UMIFRE 21 CNRS-MAEE  
11, St. Louis Street  
P.B. 33 PONDICHERRY-605001  
INDIA  
Tel: [+91 - 413 - 233 4168 ext. 119](tel:+91%20413%20233%204168)  
E mail: [gan...@ifpindia.org]()  
Web: [www.ifpindia.org](http://www.ifpindia.org)

