+++
title = "014 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2012-03-20, 17:22:42 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/bxZ-mOGUEKo)]]



Dear scholars,



First of all I am not offended by the views of Dr. Ajit Gargeswari. Similarly I do not mean any offence to anybody in my analyses. However I cannot subscribe to the escapism of 'let us leave itat that'. The very object of sites like this and of discussions like this is to generate an interest in the study and examination of the data and arrival at some plausible conclusion and thereby push the frontiers of knowledge further. Else we will be unfit to call ourselves researchers and scientists.



What I have quoted is not merely my view but that of the science of physics, the Law of conservation of mass and energy, which has been accepted by all the scientists. I am not subscribing to any theory as the Karma theory; and I do not envelop the facts in a shroud of religion.



The Chandogya deals with many scientific thoughts, which the modern science also concurs with. My prayer is that those who claim to be scientists and researchers, should reason out as researchers and not as Hindus or other believers. A Scientist goes by reasoning and not beliefs; with an open mind. That is how science has advanced.



If any body defeats me with a better reasoning, I shall be glad. When the atomic wt. was defined as wt. of the Hydrogen atom, which was taken as 1, when a scientist announced that his experimentation showed the wt. of the H atom was 1.008, that was not looked at sketically, but with an open mind; and that led to the discovery of isotopes. That is the way of scientists; neither accepting blindly nor ignoring the truths. So let it be reasoned out. If no body so far has found out the cause; it is all the more interesting to a true scientist; since it gives a maiden ground for discovery.



we should concern about what others have already said on the subject only if the finality was attained by them. Else it should be considered seriously in a scientific and logical manner. That is what Nobel laureates likeEinstein and Feynmann did. That is what Stephen Hawking did; though he may not have attained the finality. His work is monumental. when Berzelius stated that all gasses remain in the atomic state; it was accepted as true; until Avagadro came out with the molecular theory which holds sway today. Who knows that some Rajaram or Ajit or Aditya may improve upon that. Let us therefore not go with this belief or that belief; but start with the scientific truths that have been proved till now, and carry our investigations further. That is the way of all scientists and that is the way that all our ancient Rishis adopted. We need not shy away even with possible failures. We will be right as long as our logic is correct. But this should be the attitude of our researchers; not mugging up something and be satisfied at that.



Yours humbly,

s.r.krishna murthy



  
  










