+++
title = "000 Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry(G-MAIL)	2018-06-12, 06:33:33 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/gop_0Ccsm0k)]]



Namaste



Translations to English from Samskruth/ Indian languages have provided ground for venting all kinds of emotions and call for actions ! Some for battle and some for hilarious debates ! If one were to look a little over the shoulder of Samskrutham, many western scholars of 18^(th) and 19^(th) century contributed to the print-publication of many cultural works in regional languages along with a translation.
Their effort needs great appreciation; without their serious work, we might have lost many a gems of literature in India. One such work is
Jaimini Mahabharata in Kannada language.



Daniel Sanderson of Wesleyan Missionary published Jaimini Mahabharata, a celebrated Canarese poem with an English translation and notes. The publication came out in 1852. (<https://archive.org/stream/jaiminibharataa00sandgoog#page/n4/mode/2up>
). A copy of this gets in to Harvard College in Feb 1916. Google has digitized a copy of this work.



In his 1852 translation, he uses the expression ‘ **pour Young cocanuts’** in the context of ‘ Sudhanva ‘ story, a very popular theme in Karnataka Yakshagana performance. The translation text reads : :




All the people saw it, were amazed, and praised the Lotus-eyed. Then Likhita enraged, called out, " He is skilled in conjuration of fire; **bring young cocanuts**". **They brought and poured in the young cocanuts; **the flame sruck the sky; and as the bursting shells flew, and hit the cheeks of the purohitas, sudhanwa laughed. (<https://archive.org/stream/jaiminibharataa00sandgoog#page/n222/mode/2up> )*- Translation of Jaimini Mahabharata (11-25) - page 216 - Sudhanva Story - as present in the resource*





Contemplate what would the expression ***‘ pour young cocanuts’***
mean to today’s ‘reader- academic -researcher’ who may have very little background of the ‘ Adhyatma –Samskruti of Mahabharata expressed in Samskruth’ ! and the ‘ local culture’.





***About the larger picture of challenge involved:*** Many discussion threads keep a focus on ‘ damage to (Swadeshi) Sanskrit’ and project it as the root cause to be addressed for a course correction. This thinking horizon has to expand beyond this ‘ tip of the nose thinking’ and bring a limelight focus on connection of
Mahabharata in ‘ Regional languages as public narrative’ . This is also needed to address the sensitivity and dynamics of English for Translation in earlier centuries and for Modern English reader’s
appeal, sense and sensitivity’. This was one of the key issues that was addressed in ‘ Murthy Classics – Transaltion project funding’. 



 When ‘ Mahabharata / Ramayana public narratives shifted from ‘ only Sanskrit’ to a ‘ Regional language supplemented Sanskrit model of Public narrative and discourse’ at Bharath, the visionary poets retained the sense and essence of Vyasa tradition, the story, history, mystery and transcendental values of Dharma-Yoga. This entire scenario goes topsy-turvy in 18^(th) century, where the story – land history –religion gets on top of political narrative of the sacred text and ‘ a clean cut off of Mahabharata from Vedas’ is made. In the current period, the slide is further down ! Mahabharata has become a basket of mythology, stories for entertainment, ground to explore land-history to identify-build heritage monuments to promote economic models of ‘ Heritage Tourism’.



***The root error***: Language Disconnect of ‘ Mahabharata’ from in its
primary narrative :Samskrutham ! and the regional languages ! What has happened in this process to ‘ Kannada has occurred to all regional languages of India – be it Marathi, Telugu, Bengali, Kashmeeri…’. For a comparative model of similar scenario, world wide, one may look at the churches which retained or dropped ‘ Latin sermons’ and preferred ‘ Translation versions to make outreach to their members in community for services’. And Buddhists see-saw shifts between Samskruth – Tibetan and regional languages. 



Bharatiya Vidya bhavan had done commendable work under the leadership of’ Mattur Krishnamurthy’ in delivering ‘ Mahabharata – Kannada Classics – illustrated lectures with text, music and narrative explanation’. It has remained a ‘ Scholars treasure and paradise’ ; It is yet to find its ways to the ‘ young cocanuts’ in education ! 



The generation of ‘ Hinduism and Mahabharata Scholarship that seems to
grow up with Amar Chitra katha and depend on ‘ Sagar Video narratives’ to present learned debates on Mahabharata seems to be ‘ less sensitive’ to the ground reality that has shaped the social psyche and undercurrents of Sanatana Dharma practices and the importance of ‘ Language Connections to the narrative in the text-discourse’. 







Regards



BVK Sastry



