+++
title = "000 R. Narayana iyengar"

+++
[[R. Narayana iyengar	2013-07-10, 07:29:11 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/cbAgVbVYQZY)]]



Dear Dr.Ghanapathi,

This is a very positive outcome of the BVP discussion. I sincerely wish scientific analysis of Vedic chanting and hymn structures will be undertaken here in India by dedicated people. Other than the analysis of voice recordings which will tell us about the PAthabheda, the implicit hymnal structure itself may also have to be studied. We know that in classical music the swaras are at nearly fixed intervals. Purely from hearing the sAma chants it would appear there are some fixed intervals or strong convergence to such positions. I am unable to express my self more clearly since I do not know the theoretical structure of sAma-gAna. However at many places sAma chants sound like the Abhogi rAga of south Indian music. This, if correct would be a long way from the (Uda,Anu,Sva) triplet. This is what I meant in my post. The investigation requires a dedicated study of the vedic tradition combined with modern analytical approach of time series analysis and statistics.

  

with kind regards

  

RN Iyengar

  

  

On Tue, Jul 9, 2013 at 6:30 AM, Dr.Vamshi Krishna Ghanapathi (Avadhoota Datta Peetham) \<[v...@dattapeetham.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> > Dear Sri Iyengar >
> 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > The points raised by you on BVP Post, are relevant to the Vedic > Learning, especially in the context of Samaveda and other Swaras. >
> 
> > 
> > I have been broaching upon this topic, since many years in my > interaction with Scholars. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > Being a scholar, trainer, speaker, organiser, my effort to determine > the veracity of the practice with the preach; have not been fully > successful. I thought that some scientific analysis to complete the > mapping and recording of the voice samples/ complete chants should be > undertaken. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > I am of the view that, this analysis is very much required to > investigate the cause of Paatha Bhedas (Differences between > traditions). Swara Dharmas such Ucchaishtwa, Neechaishthwa, > Samaaharatwa and Kampa are to be treated on different places, voice > frequencies. >
> 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > With Warm Regards  
> Dr.Vamshi K Ghanapathi  
> ---------------------  
> सर्वं ब्रह्ममयम् >
> 
> > 
> > 

  

