+++
title = "009 R. N. iyengar"

+++
[[R. N. iyengar	2021-06-02, 17:14:35 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/5AVY82Mx0kg)]]



 Dear Dr. Jamadagni,

Thanks for your extract from Sri Aurobindo's *Secret of Veda*. I have read many of his works since my younger days, as an admirer. His life and writings remain as inspirations for generations to come. Together with the writings of Sri Kapali Shastry the deeper meanings of many RV hymns become apparent by reading the *Hymns to the Mystic Fire.* My inquisitiveness as an ordinary Hindu with no mystical faculty ( theabove two had in full command) is to intellectually figure out the physical environment that is pictured in some of the RV hymns. As Yaaskaacharya says there could be perceptions in three levels (adhyatma, adhiyajna and adhidaiva). My interest is in the last one where consciousness is so much differentiated that multiplicity of objects are cognized and counted in numbers as naturally as one breathes. Theseare the lauds to RV devatas located in the sky with their actions pictured andcharacterisedby numbers. For example, Marutsincrease by two and three and their count varies from twenty-one (I.133.6) to forty-nine (VIII.28.5) to sixty-three (VIII.96.8). They could even be seen in waves of thousands (I.168.4). As Sri A points out; Rudra is more important in terms of his cosmic role than Maruts - rudra sUnavah, but what do the numbers signify?

Thank you for your thought provoking post.

regards  

  

RN Iyengar

  

On Wed, Jun 2, 2021 at 1:39 PM R. N. iyengar \<[narayana...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  



