+++
title = "007 Dr. T. Ganesan"

+++
[[Dr. T. Ganesan	2014-04-11, 17:21:21 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/eEN8yR_Vqr4)]]



  
*If this is contradiction, then one can argue that Gītā 18-41 (ब्राह्मणक्षत्रियविशां शूद्राणां च परन्तप। कर्माणि प्रविभक्तानि स्वभावप्रभवैर्गुणैः॥) which admits different Guṇa for four Varṇas, contradicts the Puruṣasūkta (ब्राह्मणोऽस्य मुखमासीत्। बाहू राजन्यः कृतः। ऊरू तदस्य यद्वैश्यः। पद्भ्‍यां शूद्रो अजायत॥) which says the Varṇas came from different body parts of the cosmic Puruṣa.*  
  

Yes. The Gita verse under discussion 18-41 contradicts the Vedic passage (PuruShasuukta): Gita, the Smriti contradicts the PuruShasuukta, the Sruti. Therefore, Gita passage is not valid; a Smriti that contardicts a Sruti is definitely not valid according to the Vedic tradition accepted by all Astika-s.

  
  
  
*When we talk of Sāttvika, Rajāsa, Tāmasa - there is no superiority or inferiority intended, it is the inherent Guṇa which is being talked about.* *  
*  

No. By classifying as saattvika, raajasa and taamasa definitely, there is the idea of superiority and inferiority. Otherwise why should one classify ? These three guNa-s along with their effects are discussed in almost all the Saastra-s and one is advised to strive to develop the sattvaguNa alone leaving the other two which quality is the *sine qua none* for any spiritual upliftment, be it any darshana or tradition.  
  
It is so well-known that even the much acclaimed Gita discusses a lot about these guNa-s with regard to food, activities and mental dispositions, etc. and speaks highly only of the sattvaguNa.  
  
Also, in the classification of the 18 purANa-s as saattvika, etc. the same hierarchy and the idea of superiority-inferiority is the basis, which view, as I had mentioned in an earlier message, was a later concoction by some VaishNava teachers and foisted upon the PurANa corpus and which had ably been analysed threadbare and refuted by NiilakaNThadiikShita in his puurvapIThikA to his elaborate commentary on the SivaaShTottarasatanaamastottra.  
  
Ganesan





