+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-09-11, 17:55:13 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/FnolbWzBrFc)]]



JOB GUIDE NO.:<https://www.h-net.org/jobs/job_display.php?id=41144>  
  
University of Pennsylvania, History andSociology of Science  
AssistantProfessor, history of science, technology or medicine in South Asia since 1800  
Institution Type:College / University  
Location: Pennsylvania, United States  
Position: Assistant Professor  
  
  
Assistant Professor, Tenure Track. Anticipated start date,July 1, 2011.The Department of HistoryandSociology of Scienceat theUniversity of Pennsylvaniainvites application from scholars who specialize in the history of science, technology or medicine in South Asia since 1800. The successful candidate will be appointed in one of the leading programs in thehistory of science, and be a part of one of the oldest scholarly traditions of the study of South Asia in the United States, with opportunities to engage with scholars in the Department of South Asia Studies, Center for the Advanced Study of India, andSouth Asia Center. Course instruction will be in the undergraduate and graduate programs. Review of files will beginOctober 20, 2010, but applications will be considered until the position is filled.
Candidates are to apply at: [facultysearches.provost.upenn.edu/applicants/Central?quickFind=50819](http://facultysearches.provost.upenn.edu/applicants/Central?quickFind=50819) Include aletter of application, writing sample, and curriculum vitae. Also submit the names and contact information for three individuals who will provide aletter of recommendation. The University of Pennsylvania is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. Women and minority candidates are encouraged to apply.  
  
  
Contact:Professor Robert Aronowitz  
  
  
Website: None  
Primary Category: History of Science, Medicine, and Technology  
  
Secondary Categories: None  
Posting Date: 09/10/2010  
Closing Date12/07/2010

  

