+++
title = "010 Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)	2015-06-30, 11:13:36 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/o27kNJxPS9g)]]



Namaste Ajit Gargeswari ji



1. On Katyayani Tantra: Text availability, yes, the question raised in the original post is answered. Additional details were provided in response to the response posts in the thread, when the singled out pointed reference was made to Sringeri Matham. I wondered why some Shakta school of Kerala, Bengal, Kashmir or Tibetan or Nepal source did not surface ! Katyayani is one form of Durga worship, which is prevalent all over India.



2. Regarding \< Foundational approach that runs common to all Tantras / How Arthur Avalon has represented the Tradition of Tantra, authentically and deeply linked to the practices at Sringeri Sampradaya’ can be verified from the series of works by Him.



In writing the line mentioned above, I had in mind, some of the major tantra works – Prapancha Sara samgraha ( attributed to Shankaraacharya (?), Bhaskararaya’s writing on Kularnava Tantra , Mantra mahodadhi et al, ( and of course, Abhinava Guptas writings on Kashmir Saivism and Tantra) which does present the common foundation; An integral part of tantra traditional practice deeply linked with Agama, Nigama and Yoga-Samskrutham as the Mantra language(Vak-Yoga). The statement \< the foundational approach to tantra does not change from 'Maha nirvana Tantra > is made after due studies and affirmation from traditional knowledgeable practicing sources and authorities.



Traditional practitioners do not adduce much weight for ‘ modern studies guidance’ on Tantra as a ‘path for ecstasy’ and ‘massage’. Nor Traditional Tantra teaching can be subject to academic analysis for creating a citation reference resource like- White, David Gordon. *Tantra in practice*. Vol. 8. Motilal Banarsidass Publ., 2001. \[ Book available for reading at url: <https://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=hayV4o50eUEC&oi=fnd&pg=PR5&dq=tantra+studies&ots=ZiRjBxEXqj&sig=I5--PpmaNxPzeP6Oo8VXbP77uvY#v=onepage&q=tantra%20studies&f=false> \].



It is left to the discretion and intention of original post writer, on
how they plan to study the text. It is not for me to make any uncalled for suggestion on how to study the text. Or even whom to approach and with what mind-set.





3. May be this issue is not right to be discussed on the forum and public space. I am always open for a private mail exchange if any more clarifications are needed.



Regards

BVK Sastry



------------------------------------------------------------------------

No virus found in this message.  
Checked by AVG - [www.avg.com](http://www.avg.com)  
Version: 2015.0.6037 / Virus Database: 4365/10122 - Release Date: 06/29/15

