+++
title = "031 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2012-01-15, 20:38:15 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/zG4bZubyrCA)]]



Namaste Dr Murty:  

  

Thank you for sharing your thoughts to my query.

  

As I recall, the stotra is found in slkanda puraaNa (found in some editions), regardless what I would like to understand is why only these 12 Names? and How do these names really the specific "SIN's", "paapa" "paataka"? So, what I am really after is the corresponding application, fully bearing in mind that just reciting these names without understanding the mechanism beings it may be purely academic exercise of futility. ("tajjapastadrtha bhaavanam", manaata trayate it mantraH........ etc.)  
  
On the other had if we says, that it is our "shraddhaa" then that reciting names tree time a day also illuminates the corruption as the so called "bhakta" seems to be taking license to commit sins by design and try to wash away the sins performed under the pretext of appearing "religious" and "pious" to the rest of society. Just like the statement gaNesha athrvashiisha - "pratrdhiiyaano raatriikR^itam paapaM naashayati". THis shpould not be taken as a license to perform paapa at night and then recite stotra to wash away (destroy) the sins of previous night.  
  
Look forward to hearing from all scholars. For this reason I had raised the question about "the Meaning of Meaning" (arthaartha).  
  
Best regards,  
  
Dr Yadu  
  
  
  

  

  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**From:** sadasivamurty rani \<[ranisada...@yahoo.com]()\>  
**To:** "[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()" \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
**Sent:** Sunday, January 15, 2012 3:27 AM

  
**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} पञ्च महापातकानि  



