+++
title = "005 R. Narayana iyengar"

+++
[[R. Narayana iyengar	2013-11-08, 21:12:38 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/qWO2S7vYiSE)]]



Dr.Mishra,

Thanks for your observation about the Cover Page draft. I have no difficulty in changing तंत्रम् toतन्त्रम्, because that is the form used by convention largely. You would see that in my post I use the latter orthography. 

  

About the other word,ज्योतिःशास्त्रम् I stick to my usage. I have seen ज्योतिश्शास्त्रम् being used. I understand this is optional. Your alternate suggestion I had thought about, but the wordज्यौतिषशास्त्रम्gives the sense of Astrology in the current cultural context in India. The thrust of Parashara's text being largely the visible sky with bright objects (astronomy) I made a choice and find no reason to change it.

  

I have learnt some thing from your Q & A but not necessarily accepting all the contents therein. You make too strong a statement such as "but plain wrong in Sanskrit". Had you said "in the contemporary Devanaagarii script representation of classical Sanskrit...." I would have left it that. Sanskrit has had no specific script. So long the sounds are pronounced nearest to their natural limits "it is Sanskrit". In writing it is like "spelling". The correct accents/pronunciations are learnt by practice and listening. This varies with in certain statistical limits from region to region and also time to time. AFAIK no one has quantified the variation and arrived at a normative form. What we have is only a broad consensus. Not being a linguist I am not interested in arguing this point, but I know I am not wrong.

  

Incidentally, the word ತಂತ್ರ in Kannada will be sounded and heard asतन्त्र only, not तम्त्र. So also ಮಂತ್ರ.The visual representation of the resulting word and sound as ತನ್ತ್ರ is possible but looks clumsy and needs more effort to write. In the older letter press printing such representation was expensive for casting the lead types. Therefore the लाघव principle can come into play even in writing and printing.This has nothing to do with Prakrit vs Sanskrit. May be you can start another thread on this, since this is not relevant to my post.

  

The underlying principle of Sanskrit Grammar as I have understood is 'principle of minimum effort which is the law of nature', that is nearly same asलाघव in the sense of a mathematical limit to invent a metalanguage for codifying a spoken language, so that variations in time and space are reduced to a possible minimum without sacrificing the beauty inherent in intuitive, imaginative, creative and intellectual efforts. I have great regard for this. But when grammar extends to the visual representation of ideas through words and sentences in any script what matters is the speed and correctness with which the meaning is resolved in the mind of the Reader who does it as मध्यमा वाक् unlike a listener in the oral tradition who has to first resolve the same in the वैखरी mode, before it gets registered.

  

If you are implying that Sanskrit is to bewritten in Devanaagarii only, I beg to differ.The above points are no objections to your opinions, but only a discussion.

  

I may mention here that one will find with in the book words and phrases which some may think आर्ष while others may say non-Paninian, and some others dismiss as 'incorrect'. I have only copied the text from other print versions. It is said best is the enemy of good. I am, as of now not capable of giving even the better! I am only investigating objectively the content of an ancient "sky observation tradition including some modeling" using modern concepts and methods. Serious study of the "outer form of Paraas'ara's tradition" orally transmitted over centuries, later written down and then printed is not my speciality.Let me hope some one will bring out the best edition if and when the original manuscripts are located.Till then my defence of using Sanskrit as a support and taking liberties with purists is from

  

विद्यामाधवीयम्

  

वैयाकरणकिरातैरपशब्दमृगाः क्व यान्ति सन्त्रस्ताः \|

नटविटभटगणकभिषक्च्छ्रोत्रियमुखकन्दराणि यदि न स्युः \|\| 

  

  

इति शम्

नारायणः

  
  

On Fri, Nov 8, 2013 at 10:15 AM, rniyengar \<[narayana...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:



