+++
title = "002 Dr. P. Ramanujan"

+++
[[Dr. P. Ramanujan	2016-12-13, 19:37:13 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/3hXGjz0n6oo)]]



Prof. Pyari Mohan Pattanayak, Former Professor of Sarvadarsana at Sri Puri Jagannath Sanskrit University, has created such audio-visual books for the six darsanas.

He may also be contacted.

I have video recorded his Sankhya Karika charts with text and explanation for over 4 hours in TARKSHYA project.

He is willing to record other darsana texts similarly.



Ramanujan  

On December 13, 2016 at 7:03 PM Veeranarayana Pandurangi \<[veer...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:

> Dear All, here is one tarkasangraha graphic book attached. It is a > very good amateur book needs to be corrected. I hope to identify the > person so we can get original file for correction. It is still > enjoyable for learners.  
> I strongly feel that we need to develop such new books.  
>   
> > 

> --  

> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  

> For more options, visit [**MailScanner has detected definite fraud in > the website at "groups.google.com". Do *not* trust this website:** > https://groups.google.com/d/optout](https://groups.google.com/d/optout).

  


  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
\[ C-DAC is on Social-Media too. Kindly follow us at:  
Facebook: <https://www.facebook.com/CDACINDIA> & Twitter: @cdacindia \]  
  
This e-mail is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may  
contain confidential and privileged information. If you are not the  
intended recipient, please contact the sender by reply e-mail and destroy  
all copies and the original message. Any unauthorized review, use,  
disclosure, dissemination, forwarding, printing or copying of this email  
is strictly prohibited and appropriate legal action will be taken.  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

