+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2011-06-27, 16:49:18 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/KAjqU7I7CO0)]]



See also the following link which has a bearing on origins of astronomy in India:

# Babylonian and Indian Astronomy: Early Connections

[Subhash Kak](http://arxiv.org/find/physics/1/au:+Kak_S/0/1/0/all/0/1)

(Submitted on 31 Jan 2003 ([v1](http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0301078v1)), last revised 20 Feb 2003 (this version, v2))

> Did the Indian and Babylonian astronomy evolve in isolation, was there > mutual influence, or was one dependent on the other? Scholars have > debated these questions for more than two centuries, and opinion has > swung one way or the other with time. The similarities between the two > systems that have been investigated are: the use of 30 divisions of > the lunar month; the 360 divisions of the civil year; the length of > the year; and the solar zodiac. Some have wondered if the Babylonian > planetary tables might have played a role in the theories of the > siddhantas. I shall in this essay go over the essentials of the early > Indian and Babylonian astronomy and summarize the latest views on the > relationship between them. I shall show that the key ideas found in > the Babylonian astronomy of 700 BC are already present in the Vedic > texts, which even by the most conservative reckoning are centuries > older than this period. I shall also show that the solar zodiac > (rashis) was used in Vedic India and I shall present a plausible > derivation of the symbols of the solar zodiac from the deities of the > lunar segments. This does not mean that the Babylonian astronomy and > astrology is derived from the Indian tradition. If at all there was > borrowing, that was restricted to the most general ideas only. The > nature of Indian and Babylonian astronomical methods is quite > different. I propose that it is most likely that Babylonian astronomy > emerged independently.

|                    |                                                                                                                                       | |--------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------| | Comments:          | 37 pages; with minor corrections                                                                                                      | | Subjects:          | History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph)                                                 | | Journalreference: | History of Science, Philosophy & Culture in Indian Civilization, vol. 1, part 4 (A Golden Chain, G.C. Pande, ed.), pp. 847-869, 2005. | | Citeas:           | [arXiv:physics/0301078v2](http://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0301078v2)\[physics.hist-ph\]                                                 |

Full paper is at <http://www.docstoc.com/docs/82867099/Babylonian-and-Indian-Astronomy-Early-Connections---Subhash-Kak>

  

kalyan  
  

On Sun, Jun 26, 2011 at 9:53 PM, Kosla Vepa \<[kaus...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> I quote and discuss David Pingree in great detail in my book.
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >   
>   
> > 
> > On Sun, Jun 26, 2011 at 2:23 PM, navaratna rajaramnavaratna > \<[rajaramn...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > >  Setting double standards aside-- the late David Pingree > > fabricated a 'Greek source' using Indian texts to later claim that > > Indians derived their mathematics from the greeks, we need a forum > > to explore these ideas. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > >  I will see if I can organize a workshop on these topics for 2012. > > If I have my way it will be limited to mathematically literate > > people only and exclude pseudo-scholars and propagandists of all > > stripes. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > N.S. Rajaram  
> >   
> > > > 
> > > >   
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 

  

