+++
title = "022 R. N. iyengar"

+++
[[R. N. iyengar	2017-03-20, 13:01:36 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/ljg-50dpq40)]]



In continuation of the discussions on the list, I like to share the following:

  

1\. भरुण्ड , भारुण्ड , भारुण्डेय are names of Gotra-Rshis well documented with primary sources in the **Principles of Gotra & Pravara** by Chentsalrao (Mysore-1900).

  

2\. Srikantha Sastri's article to which link was provided is very informative, except the last page could not be read. But, the article in no way clarifies or provides verifiable source for BheruNDa let alone GaNDa-bheruNDa in Sanskrit literature. I wish Prof. Sastriji had provided the Puranic quotations instead of wading into Vedic texts which are amenable for multiple shades of interpretations. No doubt there is lot of folklore about both S'arabha and its supposed enemy the two-headed-eagle. Much of what we read in the Sanskrit Puranas may also happen to be contemporaneous folklore written in Sanskrit. I could not locate the figure of S'arabha in the Mysore emblems (please help me). This raises the question what is the form of S'arabha? I had heard in my Sanskrit Paathashaala days in Mysore that it was a eight legged animal which could fly and attack lions. We, as (modern) school going children had argued with our Gurus that it must be the Dinosarus. Now, any way after several decades I have located the description of S'arabha in the वीरमाहेश्वराचार सङ्ग्रहम् (chapter 17 S'arabha-leela of Shiva) by Naaganaatha 12th Cent. The animal S'arabha is depicted as having four lower legs and four upper legs and also two wings. The fight with Narasimha (Vishnu) is in the sky. Without going further, it would be interesting to know whether any sculpture of the animal or Shiva as S'arabheshvara exists. Nothing is said in the above Shaivism text about any भेरुण्ड bird or otherwise.

  

3\. Prof.Shastri sees not only Vedic but also astronomical connection with BheruNDa. I am sceptical, unless the celestial descriptions and imagery are shown to be correlated with the night sky. The possibility of a Vedic link would be through **Dvita** a form of Fire prior to Trita and Ekata, the *three elder brothers of Agni* (alluded to in RV and explained in the Brhaddevata) who get offerings in the Darsha-purNamaasa rites. This is admittedly speculative!

  

4\. The only Sanskrit textual reference to BheruNDA (भेरुण्डा) I could so far locate is in the Commentary on Soundarya-lahari by Lakshmidhara (श्लो 31). The link is with the night sky inasmuch as the fifth phase of the moon is called भेरुण्डा in the Agamic texts. He quotes वसिष्ठ संहिता : .......नित्यक्लिन्ना तथाचैब भेरुण्डा वह्निवासिनी \|\|......In the next verse (32) he explains this explicitly as पञ्चम्यां भेरुण्डाख्या कला \| . Is an imagery of a split-head possible for moon's orb on the panchamii tithi?

  

5\. It is not only in Russia but also in other parts of Europe (perhaps including Israel) there is renewed interest in this symbol. Much of the historical information was put down succinctly in a few lines as far as back as 1899! (Pl. see attachment available free on Jstor) I feel nothing substantively new has been added as far as European historical information is concerned.

  

Best regards

RNI

  

On Fri, Mar 17, 2017 at 11:18 AM, R. N. iyengar \<[narayana...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  



