+++
title = "002 Arun"

+++
[[Arun	2011-01-19, 07:45:15 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/WunhjTuQkoU)]]



Object is correct, but the term and method of classification are not  
proper. Language has 2 broad categories. One is common language used  
in market place, homes. Standard version is written in letters/books.  
Govt official language is same as in books with some special words for  
each department. That is the category of language used by Govt  
officials in Abhigyana-Shakuntalam by Kalidasa-1. Here, Priest is a  
Govt official, not a common priest doing worship in village temples.  
Function of Purohita was to represent the state like present Attorney  
General as Dhaumya was doing for Pandavas in their exile period. He  
had never done Puja. Kautilya has called this as one of 7 component of  
State-here, Purohita means moral justification of state by  
Constitution, Dharma etc. More extended sense is in first verse of  
Rigveda-Agnim Ile Purohitam-that is not relevant here.  
There is another technical version of language. Rules of syntax ad  
grammar are same, but words have certain special definitions and  
differ from literary meanings. Ayurveda, jyotisha, Shilpa, Sangita etc  
define same word differently-though they are linked in some way.  
Similarly Nyaya, Vasheshika and even branches of same vedanta have  
special features.  
In both versions, meanings or definitions are open ended-i.e. there is  
scope for some new meanings, depending on better understanding of  
subject and new research-Arun  

î—“

