+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-10-14, 17:11:14 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/M3c4FC2W7qY)]]



Bones of contention: Psec experts’ views adjudicated by the Allahabad HC



<http://rjbm.nic.in/sa/Judgment%20RJB-BM%20Vol-18.pdf>



The ‘distinguished experts’ who ask for publication of the evidential documents of the judicial system (Allahabad HC) should also ask for publication of the High Court’s detailed evaluation and adjudication of the ASI Report. Is it the contention of these 'experts'that courts should publish all the evidences recorded in courts? I think the appeal made to the CJI by the psecs should be dismissed with contempt. (Psec is an abbrev. for pseudo-seculars).



Here are the relevant excerpts related to the issue of ‘bones’ discovered in the excavations.



It is a pity that psecs don’t read the Ayodhya verdict before indulging in diversionary tactics demanding publication of evidence presented in the High Court.



With such ‘distinction’ and ‘eminence’ displayed the pundits have lost their claim to be credible historians. It is dangerous to deal with people indulging in half-truths and who do not respect the rules of evidence under the Rule of Law. What say, the 'eminences' on the the responsibility (dharma) of the nyaayaalay (Courts) to evaluate the evidence from a judicial perspective?

  

Read on excerpts from the full text of the judgement on these bones of contention...<http://www.docstoc.com/docs/57357624/Bones-of-contention>

  

Many original testimonies of the 'experts' can be read in original Hindi :)--

  

Some translated excerpts are appended.



Kalyanaraman

14 October 2010

  

**3961. **ASI has referred to the bones on page 270 and saidas under:

*"Animal bones have been recovered from various levels ofdifferent periods, but skeletal remains noticed in the*

*trenches in northern and southern areas belong to theperiod IX as the grave pits have been found cut into the*

*deposition coeval with the late disputed structures and aresealed by the top deposit."*

*  
*

**

  

***3962. PW-16 Surajbhan **on the question of bones stated:*

*"*

*I did not see the bones discovered from the*

**

*excavation site, though few pieces of bones had been kept*

**

*in the Pottery Yard.” (E.T.C.)*

**

*  
*

**

*“Question- The bones mentioned by you, relate to which*

****

*animals?*

* *

*Answer- It is not the subject matter of my studies, but in*******

******

*the ASI report it has been mentioned that bones had been*

**

*found at the excavation site.” (E.T,C.)*

*  
*

**

*“Question- ****You have not studied the bones discovered***

***from the excavation site****?*

*Answer- ****Yes****.” (E.T.C.)*

**

*“Question- According to me, most of the bones found at the***************

**************

*excavation site were of wild animals or such animals,*

******

*which are not eaten by human beings such as dog, donkey,*

**************

*pig, frog, python etc. What you have to say in this behalf?*

******

****

**

*Answer- The excavators do not think so.***

**

**

**

*The excavators have not given any particular report*

**

**

**

**

*in this behalf so as to prove the question as put up by the*

**

**

**

**

*learned counsel for the cross-examiner. The statement*

**

**

**

**

*being given by me about the bones, is mentioned in ASI’s*******

********

*report. A****nimals were sacrificed in few temples even in***

************

******

***past and today as well. Buffalo bull, he goat, cock etc.*********

************

***were sacrificed****.*

  

**

**

**

*I have not made any special study about the*

**

**

**

**

*followers of Kabir and Raidasi temple. . . . . . . . . I have not*

******

*made any special study in this behalf.” (E.T.C.)*

**

**3963. PW-29 (Jaya Menon) **on the question of bones,**

**

**

**

stated:

****

****

**

*“I may not be an expert but it is possible to identify***************

**************

*different species except in the case of sheep and goat by*

******

*seeing the bone. My statement in paragraph-9 of the*

**************

*affidavit regarding bones found in Trench No. F/3, F/4, F/5*

******

*is on the basis of daily register which was prepared at the *

**************

*site by the ASI Team. . . . .in the swearing para this*

******

*paragraph is shown as based on ‘my knowledge’. It is true*

**************

*that the daily register does not mention species of animals.*

******

*. . . . . .I am not an expert nor I have studied the bones*

**************

*found during the excavation at the disputed site. . . . . .*

******

****

**

*.Species of bone can be identified even if it is too old by***************

**************

*visual examination. Palaeobotany is a subject dealing with*

**

**

**

**

*ancient plants and I am not an expert of that. . . . . . .I do*

**

**

**

**

*not agree with the suggestion that the bones recovered*

**

**

**

**

*during excavation at the site in question were kept or were*

**

**

**

**

*brought by scavengers because such large quantity of*

**

**

**

**

*bones could not have been brought by scavengers. By large*

******

*quantity I mean that ****during excavation every day bags***

**************

***full of bones were recovered from the site in question****. I*

**

**

**

**

*do not remember the exact number of bones recovered*

**

**

**

**

*during excavation. Size of those bags were different."*

******

****

**

  

*(Page 37-38)*

*"The witness replied that she had not complained to***************

**************

*any about the excavated soil being thrown away without*

**

**

**

**

*any sorting nor I had complained about the bones of*

**

**

**

**

*human skeleton being mostly thrown.” (Page 42)*

******

****

**

*"According to me ****one of the significant aspects*****

**

**

**

***neglected by ASI in the disputed site is the study of***

**

**

**

**

***animal ****bones. Animal bones are part of the evidence and*

**

**

**

**

*should have been studied in the case of present excavation.*

**

**

**

**

*If there was a temple at disputed site then the area of the*******

********

*construction of the temple should have been cleaned of*

************

**************

********

********

*an*

************

******

*imal bones." (Page 67)*

****

****

**

*"Question:- If bone is found under constructed area of***************

**************

*temple then whether that construction can be considered as*

******

*temple in that case also?*

******

******

*  
*

****

**

**

**

*Answer:- I have no idea about this fact.” (Page 68)*

****

****

**

*“In para 8A of my affidavit I have said that bones***************

**************

*from a human skeleton too were mostly thrown away. These*

**

**

**

**

*bones were recovered from trench ZHI. The human skeleton*

**

**

**

**

*was mostly intact. Trench ZHI lies towards North to the*

**

**

**

**

*makeshift structure. Bones can be dated. Chemical change*

**

**

**

**

*in the bones is possible only if the bones have been buried*

**

**

**

**

*for a long period of time." (Page 74)*

******

****

**

*“Bones of humans and animals and plant remains***************

**************

*are also important for the study of the past." (Page 77)*

******

****

**

*“By stating in paragraph 8A that the collection of***************

**************

*artefacts was not made in scientific manner, I mean that the*

**

**

**

**

*bones of human skeleton recovered in a particular trench*

**

**

**

**

*were not collected but were thrown away. I was although*

**

**

**

**

*present at the time of excavation but I did not raise any*

**

**

**

**

*objection to the throwing of the bones. The excavators did*

**

**

**

**

*not collect the bones. During excavation at the site the*

**

**

**

**

*excavator collected bones found in northern and southern*

**

**

**

**

*trenches but the bones found in the trench ZH-1 were not*

**

**

**

**

*collected, rather they were thrown away. So far as I know,*

**

**

**

**

*no one made any objection to this conduct of the*

**

**

**

**

*excavators in throwing away the bones found in trench ZH-*

******

****

**

*1." (Page 229)*

*  
*

**3964**. **PW 30 (Dr.R.C.Thakran) **on the question of bones,**

**

**

**

said:

****

****

**

*“I have the knowledge that discoveries of bones in so***************

**************

*many excavations have continued to be recorded; for*

**

**

**

**

*instance – Sarai Nahar Rai ( Uttar Pradesh), Damdama*

**

**

**

**

*(Uttar Pradesh), Mahadaha (Uttat Pradesh), etc.. All the*

**

**

**

**

*afore-said places are in Jaunpur, Pratapgarh and*

******

*Allahabad. I have certainly gone through the reports*

**

**

**

*concerning excavations at the afore-said places.*

**

**

**

**

*Concerned reports were published. All these reports were*

**

**

**

**

*published by the Cultural and Archaeological wing of the*

**

**

**

**

*Ancient Indian History Department of University of*******

********

*Allahabad. I do not remember the names of the magazines*

************

******

*in which the afore-said reports were published. . . . A book*******

********

*has also been recently published which speaks of the*

  

**

**

**

*reports relating to the afore-said three places. I do not*

**

**

**

**

*remember the name of the book, its writer and*

**

**

**

**

*publisher.”(E.T.C.)*

****

******

****



*“The bones which were being discovered when I was***************

**************

*there in course of the excavation, had cut marks and they*

******

*were of several types (thin, thick, hard, soft, etc.) seeing***************

**************

*which it can be said as to which animals these bones*

**

**

**

**

*belong to.” (E.T.C.)*

******

******

******

****

**

*“I do not know whether or not animal bones were*******************

******************

*discovered in the excavation of several temples. I have in*

**

**

**

**

**

*excavation reports of the temples read about animal bones*

**

**

**

**

**

*having been found. In regard to such temples, there was no*

**

**

**

**

**

*dispute as to there being any Eidgah or mosque. In the*

**

**

**

**

**

*excavation of those temples where animal bones were*

**

**

**

**

**

*found, I did not try to know there were animal bones at the*

********

******

******

*said places. It will not be proper to say that I have given*******************

******************

*wrong statement in favour of the plaintiffs.” (E.T.C.)*

********

******

******

**

*“The words 'which in bulk seems to be sheep and***********************

**********************

*goat' written in the 11th line of para-5 on page-3 of my*

**

**

**

**

**

**

*Affidavit, ****represent my opinion and also have a***

**********

***rchaeological basis****. In this behalf, none had given me*

**

**

**

**

**

**

*any advice or information. ****It is my own finding****. (Himself*

**********

*stated) I have been dealing with this type of archaeological*

**

**

**

**

**

*remains. I have not dealt with pig bones, because the*

**

**

**

**

**

**

*primitive history for the first time saw the rearing only of*

**

**

**

**

**

**

*two animals, sheep and goat, by men and these two*

**

**

**

**

**

**

*animals have continued to be in use on a large scale for*

**

**

**

**

**

**

*fulfilment of the latter's needs. It has been in evidence*

**

**

**

**

**

**

*during excavations at several sites.” (E.T.C.)*

********

********

******

**3965. PW 32 (Dr. Supriya Verma) **on the question of**********************

**********************

bone, said:

**********

********

******

*“The bones which were referred to by me in para 11***********************

**********************

*of the affidavit were seen by me. Only by looking to the*

**********

*bones, I cannot identify as to which animal species the*

**********************

*bone belongs because I am not a Zoo-Archaeologist. The*

**

**

**

**

**

**

*above bones could be of any animal including dog.” (Page*

**

**

**

**

**

**

*43)*

**********

********

******

*“Merely by looking at a skeleton, one cannot say that***********************

**********************

*whether the skeleton was of Hindu or of Muslim*

**********

*person.”(Page 45)*

*  
*

*“Bones that have been found in N.B.P.W. Gupta and***********************

**********************

*post Gupta periods have been mentioned on the basis of*

**********

********

******

*ASI report because it says that bones have been found at all***********************

**********************

*level. Bones have no relation with civilization. Bones are*

**********

********

******

*not associated with any particular community. Bones tell us***********************

**********************

*bout food habits of societies. Bones tell us about food*

**********

********

******

*habit of human society.”(Page 50)*

*  
*

*“When archaeologists come across animal bones***********************

**********************

*which can be of domestic as well as of wild animals the*

**

**

**

**

**

**

*inference that is made relate to the food habit of that*

**

**

**

**

**

**

*society or one can get an idea about the fauna that might*

**

**

**

**

**

**

*have existed at that time around that site. When*

**********

*archaeologists excavate and find archaeological material*

**

**

**

**

**

*which can include pottery and bones inference and*

**

**

**

**

**

**

*interpretation are made by archaeologists on the basis of*

**

**

**

**

**

**

*the context in which these finds are exposed.” (Page 50-51)*

********

********

******

*“While studying bones to ascertain the contest is***********************

**********************

*important and the second step is to have the bones*

**

**

**

**

**

**

*identified by Zoo-archaeologist.” (Page 51)*

**********

********

******

*“The archaeological sites that have been found in***********************

**********************

*India reveal that from Palaeolithic time on wards animals*

**

**

**

**

**

**

*have been consumed. Finding of bones has to be related to*

**

**

**

**

**

**

*the context and the quantification of bones has also to be*

**

**

**

**

**

**

*kept in mind.”(Page 51-52)*

**********

********

******

*“One bone can come by chance but hundreds of***********************

**********************

*bones don't come by chance.” (Page 52)*

**********

********

******

*“Animals bones are part of archaeological evidence
***********************

**********************

*and have to be understood in the context in which they are*

**

**

**

**

**

**

*being found.”(Page 53)*

**********

********

******

*“Q. Whether bones are found in the mosque or kept***********************

**********************

*in it?*

**********

********

******

*A. I have seen some ruined Mosques and I have***********************

**********************

*visited once in my life Jama-Masjid in Delhi and I can not*

**

**

**

**

**

**

*know whether bones can be found in mosque or not.”(Page*

**

**

**

**

**

**

*53)*

**********

********

******

*“Identification of bones is the subject of Zoo***********************

**********************

*Archaeologist I am not a Zoo Archaeologist. I can say that*

**

**

**

**

**

**

*bones were found during excavations but I can not identify*

**

**

**

**

**

**

*the species to which they belong. Since I have not examined*

**

**

**

**

**

**

*the bone I am not in a position to say whether they have cut*

**

**

**

**

**

**

*marks or not.” (Page 154)*

**********

********

******

*“It is not correct to say that bones recovered during***********************

**********************

*excavation at disputed site were only form dumped*

**********

*material; rather they were found in all levels including fill*

**********************

*deposits.” (Page 163)*

**********

********

******

*“It do not agree that bones found in excavation are***********************

**********************

*not a decisive piece of evidence.” (Page 163)*

**********

********

******

*“I completely disagree with the suggestion that***********************

**********************

*animal bones are not a decisive are not a decisive piece of*

**********

********

******

*evidence.” (Page 163)*

*  
*

**3966**. Sri M.M.Pandey arguing on this aspect submitted:

  

"Study of bones is important only on prehistoric sites**********************

**********************

where not much information is available regarding the

**

**

**

**

**

**

food habit, faunal profile of the region or area and

**

**

**

**

**

**

seasonality of settlement. But in this case where most of

**

**

**

**

**

**

the bones have come from secondary deposits and belong

**

**

**

**

**

**

to the period for which most of the information regarding

**

**

**

**

**

**

species and food habit of populace is known through texts

**

**

**

**

**

**

and other sources. Hence no study was felt necessary.

**

**

**

**

**

**

Even if the cut marks prove that animal was eaten

**

**

**

**

**

**

and it may also report the species of animal eaten, the

**

**

**

**

**

**

knowledge would have proved of no use in this context as

**

**

**

**

**

**

the bones do not belong to primary context and were

**

**

**

**

**

**

brought from some other place where meat-eaters were

**

**

**

**

**

**

settled.

**********

********

******

Meat eating also is not restricted to any religion or**********************

**********************

creed. Presence of animal bones in any quantity does not

**

**

**

**

**

**

prove habitation on the site. As has been said that the

**

**

**

**

**

**

context of the find is important and the case of bones is no d

**********

ifferent from any other find from these levels (Period IV

**********

to Period IX). There has been regular raising of ground by

**********************

laying of earth removed from some other place (which

**

**

**

**

**

**

could have been a habitation area).

**********

********

******

No other habitational material has been found in situ**********************

**********************

in excavation, e.g., no houses, no hearths, no baths, no

**

**

**

**

**

**

latrine, not even definite house-hold pottery the so-called

**

**

**

**

**

**

table ware, to make it a regular habitation site.

**********

********

******

The objection of the plaintiffs that bones are coming**********************

**********************

from all periods and levels. Post Gupta levels onwards are

**

**

**

**

**

**

not residential in nature but attest to levels with temples

**

**

**

**

**

**

and these levels are supposedly stratified. Why the bones

**

**

**

**

**

**

were found even from the central part of the alleged

**********

********

******

temple. If stratum VII contained a structure so radically**********************

**********************

different, from mosque in VIII above, why were there

**

**

**

**

**

**

finds not kept separate? Hukka and chillum can we expect

**

**

**

**

**

**

such finds in a temple?

**********

********

******

**3967. **In any archaeological excavation, finds of animal**********************

**********************

bones are as important as other antiquities as bones tell about

**

**

**

**

**

**

nature of fauna, environment and possibly food habits of a**

**

**

**

**

**

section of the society at that given period of time from where

**

**

**

**

**

**

the bones have been recovered. But this all can be achieved

**

**

**

**

**

**

provided the bones have been recovered from the regular layers.

**

**

**

**

**

**

In this case as they have been recovered from a pit, dump or

**

**

**

**

**

**

filling, they lose significance and importance.

**********

********

******

**3968. **In the excavation at the disputed site, the entire**********************

**********************

collection of animal bones was recovered from the fills of

**

**

**

**

**

**

different periods. Evidently, these fills were brought from the

**

**

**

**

**

**

neighbouring areas to level the ground from time to time. It is

**

**

**

**

**

**

but natural that fills which were brought from habitational

**

**

**

**

**

**

deposits contained animal bones, hence their examination will

**

**

**

**

**

**

throw light only about the area of their origin. They have no

**

**

**

**

**

**

bearing on the nature of the layers of the excavated site.

**********

********

******

  

**3969. **Moreover, it is a well known fact that in certain**********************

**********************

Hindu temples animal sacrifices are made and flesh is eaten as

**

**

**

**

**

**

Prasad while bones are deposited below the floor at the site

**

**

**

**

**

**

itself. Even Dr. Supriya Verma, the learned witness (P.W. 32) in

**

**

**

**

**

**

her submission, stated on Page 50 “Bones have no relation with

**

**

**

**

**

**

civilization. Bones are not associated with any particular

**

**

**

**

**

**

community. Bones tell us about the food habits of the

**

**

**

**

**

**

society…”. Another witness Dr Jaya Menon (P.W. 29) admitted

**

**

**

**

**

**

that “It is true that in certain kind of temples animals are

**

**

**

**

**

**

sacrificed” (Page 37). She clearly admitted that bones can be

**

**

**

**

**

**

found at temple sites also.

**********

********

******

*“Mandiron ki khudai ki reports mein animal bones paaye***********************

**********************

*jaane ke baare mein padhaa hai. Aisey Mandiron ke*

**

**

**

**

**

**

*sambandh mein kisi Idgah ya Masjid ka koi vivaad nahin*

**

**

**

**

**

**

*tha” – R.C. Thakran (P.W. 30) Page 191*

**********

********

******

**3970. **One thing more we intend to notice in respect to the**********************

**********************

bones. It is not the case of the plaintiffs (Suit-4) or other

**

**

**

**

**

**

witnesses that bones in such abundance could have been found

**

**

**

**

**

**

in Islamic religious place i.e. Mosque, Idgah etc. The Islamic

**

**

**

**

**

**

scriptures clearly show place of worship cannot be used for

**

**

**

**

**

**

residence purpose or for eating, sleeping etc. It is prohibited. If

**

**

**

**

**

**

that be so, the existence of bones could have been of some

**

**

**

**

**

**

importance had there found some other material to suggest that

**

**

**

**

**

**

it could have been a residential place if there would have been a

**

**

**

**

**

**

dispute about the nature of habitation. One thing from all the

**

**

**

**

**

**

evidence is clear that whatsoever the justification or submission

**

**

**

**

**

**

has come, the attempt is on the part of Experts witnesses of

**

**

**

**

**

**

plaintiffs (Suit-4) to show that under the disputed structure,

**

**

**

**

**

**

there could be an Islamic religious place i.e. Mosque, Idgah. It

**

**

**

**

**

**

show that they are also aware that the underneath structure was

**

**

**

**

**

**

not a non religious one. In this way of the matter also we find no

**

**

**

**

**

**

substance against the complaint of the inference drawn by ASI

**

**

**

**

**

**

and not paying much attention to the alleged bones which

**

**

**

**

**

**

according to them were found from deposits and pits hence they

**

**

**

**

**

**

are of no consequence, particularly in view of the other material**********

**********

suffice for them to draw a correct inference.

****************

********************

**********************

**********

**********

*****  
*************

**

**

**

**

**

(Excerpts from Ayodhya judgement vol.18.pdf pages 4261 to 4276)

********

********

******

**

