+++
title = "016 R. N. iyengar"

+++
[[R. N. iyengar	2015-03-15, 08:33:07 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/bDGL7Ui1VTw)]]



Dr.Bijoy,

Your forays into the epic are interesting, since critical analysis of the available Valmiki Ramayana (VR) more than the MB, is a touchy subject. Since the topic is of interest to me I like to add a few points that are general.

  

1\) The accuracy of the results we get depends on the way the question is posed. For example: "India in the TIME of Valmiki" is different from "Geography of India as depicted in VR".

The first is strongly dependent on the historicity of Valmiki and Rama and the epoch or era in which they lived on Indian soil. This question has no unique answer. Those who arrive at a date and then discuss the political or cultural issues in VR do not subscribe to textual criticism. Literalism leads to a wall with contradictions and at this stage literalists take help from texts other than VR. This confuses the issue further since the 'other texts' are more inhomogeneous and internally more inconsistent than VR. Such an exercise leans more on beliefs. The net effect even at the data level is "One can collect large amount of diffuse unreliable data which is random. At best some of this may be amenable for statistical analysis, if one looks for quantitative results. At a qualitative level, (even geography) conclusions are entirely dependent on the initial assumptions. For example: Are Lanka and Simhala same? 

  

2)About textual analysis of VR, I find the works of scholars of the older Pune school: Bhandarkar, Sankalia,Yardi,..... to be very important.

One may not agree with every point they make, but their approach to the text is scientific that is logical. Sankalia comes to the conclusion that the historical Rama of VR could not have crossed

Narmada.(Prehistory of India by HD Sankalia, Munshiram 1977)  

  

3\) As a reference for ancient geography I find B.C.Law's book (Historical geography..Munshiram) to be useful. May be you have seen this.

4\) The recent book on "Puranic geography"by KS Valdiya (Famous Geologist) is useful in many ways. He maps and compares VR information in terms of modern knowledge

5\) I propose a topic for debate and discussion: "If VR were not to be there, north and south of India would not have remained emotionally and culturally united."

  

Thanks for your attention.

best regards

RN Iyengar

  

On Sat, Mar 14, 2015 at 10:53 PM, rniyengar \<[narayana...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:



