+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2011-09-10, 18:11:50 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/ZLUpkRz8dGo)]]



Position: Head of School, School of Social Sciences, University of Witwatersrand  
\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*  
University of Witwatersrand, Faculty of Humanities  
  
Head of School, School of Social Sciences, comprising the disciplines of History, International Relations, Philosophy, Political Studies, Anthropology and Sociology, as well as several interdisciplinary programmes and five researcvh entities or centres.  
  
  
Institution Type: College / University  
Location: South Africa  
Position: Other Professional  
  
  
Faculty of Humanities  
HEADSHIP: SCHOOL OF SOCIAL SCIENCES  
  
  
The Faculty of Humanities invites applications for the Headship of the School of Social Sciences.  
  
The School of Social Sciences brings together the disciplines of History, International Relations, Philosophy, Political Studies, Anthropology and Sociology as well as several interdisciplinary programmes and five research entities or centres. More than 74 academic staff and 20 administrative staff belong to the School and currently its registration includes approximately 300 postgraduate students.  
  
The Head of School is expected to think critically about the School, provide strong intellectual leadership and managerial co-ordination and whilst respecting the integrity of the disciplines, consolidate a sense of common purpose and promote interdisciplinarity across the School as appropriate.  
  
The successful candidate should have a PhD and be an individual with a strong record of teaching and research in any of the social science disciplines and would be expected to retain a commitment to teaching and research in his/her discipline alongside the very considerable administrative responsibilities involved in leading the School. He/she should have a demonstrable track-record of academic and strategic leadership and hands-on management experience within a university.  
  
The successful applicant would be expected to take up the position from 1 January 2012 or as soon as possible thereafter. The standard period of employment is 5 years after which the candidate may seek another term or be integrated into a senior teaching and research position in the School, or, if the appointee is an existing member of the continuous staff, he/she will revert to his/her previous academic position.  
  
The Faculty accepts, however, that there may be candidates wishing to negotiate appointment for a minimum of 3 years.  
  
Remuneration will be appropriate to the seniority of the post and will be negotiated on an individual basis.  
  
Closing date: 5 August 2011. The search will continue beyond the closing date if necessary.  
  
  
Contact: Enquiries: Professor Tawana Kupe, Dean of the Faculty of Humanities -[tawan...@wits.ac.za]()  
  
Applications: covering letter, details CV with names, addresses and e-mail addresses of three referees, as well as certified copies of degrees/diplomas and identity document to: Molly Orr, Humanities Human Resources Office, Wits University, Private Bag 3, Wits, 2050  
  
Website:[http://www.wits.ac.za/academic/humanities/7234/humanities_home.html](http://www.wits.ac.za/academic/humanities/7234/humanities_home.html)  
Primary Category: Humanities  
  
Secondary Categories: Social Sciences  
  
Posting Date: 09/06/2011  
Closing Date 09/15/2011

Positions: Postdoctoral Fellowships (2), Empires in Asia, National University of Singapore  
\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*  
  
National University of Singapore, History  
  
Postdoctoral Fellowship, Empires in Asia  
  
Institution Type: College / University  
Location: Singapore  
Position: Post-Doctoral Fellow  
  
DEPARTMENT OF HISTORY  
NATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF SINGAPORE  
  
  
POSTDOCTORAL FELLOWSHIPS  
  
  
  
Invitation to Apply  
The Department of History, National University of Singapore, invites applications for Two (2) Postdoctoral Fellowships.  
  
Area of Expertise  
  
Postdoctoral Fellowship (Post 1)  
  
The successful candidate will be someone who holds a PhD degree (or is awaiting conferment) and has research interests and expertise in Empires in Asia. Preference will be given to a candidate with expertise in empires in Asia of the 18th century. This includes but is not limited to systems, concepts, theories and networks of empire, imperialism and colonization. The Fellow will work closely with faculty members in the Department on a research project in this area.  
  
Postdoctoral Fellowship (Post 2)  
  
  
The successful candidate will be someone who holds a PhD degree (or is awaiting conferment) and has research interests and expertise in Empires in Asia. Preference will be given to a candidate with expertise in the Ming and early Qing period, focusing on China. This includes but is not limited to systems, concepts, theories and networks of empire, imperialism and hegemony. The Fellow will work closely with faculty members in the Department on a research project in this area.  
  
  
Terms and Conditions  
  
The terms and conditions for the Postdoctoral Fellowship (PDF) are as follows:  
  
1. Contract to be awarded beginning from January 2012 tenable for one year and renewable, upon review, for a second year.  
  
2. A stipend of S$4,500 per month.  
  
3. An allowance of S$500 a month as contribution towards housing expenses for non-citizens (i.e. non-Singaporeans) and their spouses who do not own any property in Singapore and whose spouses are not in receipt of any form of housing benefits from their Singapore employers.  
  
4. Singapore citizens and permanent residents are eligible for provident fund benefits.  
  
5. Travel Assistance, payable once only, as follows.  
  
$2,000 for the Postdoctoral Fellow  
$2,000 for spouse  
  
The above travel assistance is a contribution towards expenses incurred by the appointee and his/her dependants in re-locating to Singapore. Such expenses refer to costs for travel, packing, transportation and insurance of personal and professional effects as well as settling-in expenses.  
  
The travel allowance is contingent upon the Postdoctoral Fellow's completion of his/her initial one-year contract. In the event that the appointee does not fulfill the initial one-year contract, the appointee shall be liable to refund the University a proportionate amount of the travel assistance granted to him/her and his/her dependants on appointment.  
  
6. Foreign PDFs who are granted Singapore Permanent Residence will continue to receive an allowance of S$500 a month as contribution towards housing expenses. The allowance will cease once they acquire Singapore citizenship.  
  
7. Medical benefits in accordance with the Medical Benefit Plan.  
  
8. Vacation leave of 28 days per calendar year.  
  
In addition, the postdoctoral fellow will be expected to  
  
Present at least one seminar a year;  
Give first right of refusal for at least one publication to a Department/Faculty-produced journal, where appropriate;  
Contribute to the activities of graduate students;  
Participate in a joint research project with NUS staff on Empires in Asia  
  
The appointed PDF may be required to participate in some part-time teaching of up to 3 hours per week without additional pay.  
  
Application  
  
All application dossiers, including details about publications, research interests and teaching areas, as well as the names of two academic referees, should be submitted by 31 October 2011. The search will continue until an appointment is made. Please address and submit documents to:  
  
Principal Investigator  
Research Project Empire in Asia: A New Global History  
Department of History  
National University of Singapore  
11 Arts Link  
AS1-05-38  
Singapore 117570  
  
  
  
Email correspondence and attachments should be sent to:[his...@nus.edu.sg]()  
  
Visit our websites at[http://www.fas.nus.edu.sg/](http://www.fas.nus.edu.sg/)for information on the Faculty, and[http://www.fas.nus.edu.sg/hist/](http://www.fas.nus.edu.sg/hist/)for information on the Department of History and the research project.  
  
  
Contact: Principal Investigator  
  
Research Project Empire in Asia: A New Global History  
  
Department of History  
National University of Singapore  
11 Arts Link  
AS1-05-38  
Singapore 117570  
  
Email correspondence and attachments should be sent to:[his...@nus.edu.sg]()  
  
Website: [www.fas.nus.edu.sg/hist/](http://www.fas.nus.edu.sg/hist/)  
Primary Category: Asian History / Studies  
  
Secondary Categories: East Asian History / Studies  
  
Posting Date: 09/06/2011  
Closing Date 10/31/2011

  

Kalyanaraman

<https://sites.google.com/site/indianoceancommunity1/>[  
](http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.com/)[http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.com](http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.com/)

<http://tinyurl.com/3w6ojj6> (Indus Script Cipher)  

<http://tinyurl.com/4xguuoh> (Rastram: Flipkart in India)

  

  

