+++
title = "070 Ravi Annaswamy"

+++
[[Ravi Annaswamy	2020-01-01, 23:54:20 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/8Mv0KH7LbTY)]]



Dr.Galstian,

  
  
\>\>  1-2. Thank you, this answers my questions. I too have the Cloud  
Vision API, mainly for Roman and Devanagari for now. It's good news  
that Tamil works well too.

  

Google Cloud vision API automatically detects languages, thanks to miraculous developments in deep learning -

object localization AND detection AND recognition are all integrated as in human brain.

This development in OCR is groundbreaking in the last couple of years.

  

Not sure if you have code to take a PDF and send through cloud vision and re-assemble. I had to write my own

to retrieve back OCR results from google bucket and extract text portions by location on page and stitch together.

Still on some pages, you might see mis-ordering.

  
>\>  3. Worth a try. My FloydHub account could be used if needed, but  
sounds like you probably have your own setup. ( And all the more  
reason in this case to obtain hi res scans.)

  

True this is a long project. For this OCR training I have ocropy based codebase.

  
  
>\>  4-8 No pressure at all. The scans put on archive were done with  
an iPhone, but I've since upgraded my office scanner to CZUR Aura, so  
a 400-500 page book can be scanned in about an hour, maybe less. The  
software splits the pages while scanning as well, although that's a  
simple script anyway. I'll provide you with Simha samples done with  
that scanner, both in BW and colour modes. If you find that we'd be  
getting better OCR results with CZUR, I can rescan the rest of the  
material. It all depends on what's quicker, to rescan the material  
with CZUR or to spell-correct OCR inaccuracies, hence my curiosity  
about existing Tamil spellcheckers, whether these are part of  
worḍ-processing packages or dedicated software.  
  

I was going to mention CZUR - especially they have a new ad on my inbox for a product called CZUR shine.

CZUR scans are limited to 300DPI whereas Scansnap goes upto 600 DPI.

Please do share a couple of pages from CZUR and I can try OCR on that.

  

Also, the other volumes scanned 2 per page, there are two options for rotate/split.

One is to use Abbyy Finereader if you have it.

Other is I am writing some code to automaticaly do it. Will let you all know.

  
>\>  9. Agreed, this isn't a textbook. However, practice shows that  
once something is made available to many people, unexpected  
developments arise. There is a lot of creativity in the world, so  
including as many people as possible is a priority, in my view. The  
combination of Hindi and English would cover a large chunk of  
potential readers and contributors.  
  

After writing the note, I was thinking the same, you said it best!

  

When humans look at sparse data, suddenly clues and hidden connections occur in their minds - get revealed.

Some of these may be unsustainable hypothesis (hallucinations) but a disciplined post process can filter out

the ones that work!

  

For instance Dr.Madhi's note that the zodiac is tropical. (I have not read his arguments and data yet, but very exciting

example of what new insights such a collection can provide).

  

Also, even though only one or two astrologically explained clues are provided in each horoscope, this collection of

100 horoscopes times 12, will give at least a 1000 clues, which is HUGE to understand the system.

  

Overall, this collection is so unique and rich and enough of homogenuity to reveal a system.

  

I just now ordered Dr.Madhivanan's ebook. He has done the right thing. He has extracted the poems containing astrological reasoning

and provided translations of those. Kanya and probably one more book has annotations by the editors, but what Madhi has provided is the

annotations by the predicting person himself/herself.

  

I am very happy to see the progress.

  

Ravi

  

  

  
Best wishes,  
Irene  

  





> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> To view this discussion on the web visit > <https://groups.google.com/d/msgid/bvparishat/CAFPaCQPcLTvWCGv%3Dw4FFAhu7W0-sq7cT3YAzcWCGdrM8JRa92w%40mail.gmail.com>.  

