+++
title = "006 S.S"

+++
[[S.S	2012-12-18, 19:44:57 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/SZXRDgXcJms)]]





Onthe one hand, self-promotion is irritating, but one can put up with it as a necessary evil (like ads on tv).



But from my perspective, what is more important in these advertisementswe see the working of

the "knowledge supply chain". Notice how one can make aworthless claim about how 100,000 years

ago everyone had a common myth ! and OUP publishes it.

 Patrcik Olivelle will be educating the folks at DU who study history. ....Does anyone see the irony ?



But,what if an Indian authormaking the claim that Panini could have been in 700 BCE ? (and not 400 BCE)

Or that the Vedas could be from 2200BCE (and not 1200BCE) ...would OUP publish such a book ? They would not.

That is because it would upset the eurocentric view of the world.



 Now when OUP publishes it, they will also comeup with some Educational kits on it and

some copycat MA History graduatefrom JNU ,tasked byNCERT, will pickup the OUP bookand then peddle the

 same story to all the school kids in India.

 A bunch of encyclopedias and popular books will pick upfrom OUPpublish their books.

 All the bookstores in India will carry it and anglicized Indians will internalize the theory and

 mock the samskritam scholar who may have a different opinion

 So the Myth becomes Factin the public mind!

(maybe an advaitin could use this asan example of maya)



 Notice how the eurocentric-interest is pushed by an established propagation system.

 This is the important aspect of "Knowledge Supply Chain" that Samskritam Scholars and samskritam universities

 have to think about.



भवदीयः

सुब्रह्‍मण्यः







