+++
title = "001 Dr. P. Ramanujan"

+++
[[Dr. P. Ramanujan	2012-12-13, 20:33:45 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/ZB34n_Ru0Ms)]]



Dear Sir!  
  
Very pertinent observation and question.  
  
I have tried to seek similar answers and have even procured one of the  
four manuscripts available at Rashtriya Sanskrit VidyaPeetha, Tirupati  
Library.  
The others are also not much different.  
  
My feeling is that the style is definitely not that of Jnanayajna author  
Bhatta Bhaskara. It misses the essence, that is, the incisive and  
mercurial Paninian derivations so characteristic of him. Also, it is so  
detailed and full of kalpa-vidhis, that even the proponents could find it  
embarrassing.  
  
It is one thing to spread dubious source and another altogether to have  
intellectual honesty.  
  
I even surmise that in order to suppress this chapter, some even went to  
the extent of burning the bhashya of the whole of 4th kanda and saying  
that he did not comment on the kanda. A renowned researcher had shared  
this info. with me.  
  
Later, only this adhyaya is shown to have been commented upon.  
  
Vested interests can do wonders!!  
  
Ramanujan  

On Thu, Dec 13, 2012, Narsing Rao \<[sthir...@gmail.com]()\> said:  
  
\> It is generally believed that Bhattabhaskara's commentary on Kanda 4  
\> (which contains the Rudradhyaya) of the Taittiriya Samhita is not  
\> available. However, Anandashram has published a commentary on the  
\> Rudradhyaya with the commentaries of Sayana and Bhattabhaskara. (These  
\> are widely quoted, but I am not sure of the original source).  
\>  
\> In the introductory part of the Anandashram publication it is mentioned  
\> that this commentary was obtained from one Gangadhara Ananta Nitsure,  
\> resident of Wai (Satara district, Maharashtra) (apparently as a  
\> published book, not a manuscript).  
\>  
\> My questions are:  
\>  

\> \* Is this commentary of Bhattabhaskara considered to be authentic?  
\> \* Is there a documentation of the manuscripts on which this commentary  

\> is based?  
\>  
\>  
\> Thanks,  
\> Narsing Rao  
\>  

\> --  
\> --  
\> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
\> to subscribe go to the link below and put a request  
\> <https://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat/subscribe>  
\> To unsubscribe from this group, send email to  
\> [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]()  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\> Email secured by Check Point  
\>  
\>  
\>  
\>  
  
--  
Dr. P. Ramanujan  
AD-IHLC,  
C-DAC, Bangalore (KP)  
[ra...@cdac.in]()  
080-25246350, 66116444 (Off.-Dir.)  
  
  
  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
  
This e-mail is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may  
contain confidential and privileged information. If you are not the  
intended recipient, please contact the sender by reply e-mail and destroy  
all copies and the original message. Any unauthorized review, use,  
disclosure, dissemination, forwarding, printing or copying of this email  
is strictly prohibited and appropriate legal action will be taken.  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
  

