+++
title = "012 Shrisha Rao"

+++
[[Shrisha Rao	2009-10-16, 16:54:16 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/UDoGc9UjN-o)]]



El oct 16, 2009, a las 4:36 p.m., piyali palit escribiÃ³:

\> Thanks, Prof. Pandurangi, for picking up your pen and objecting  
\> strongly against such misinterpretation of our culture and texts. I  
\> also request you to send a letter of objection from this forum to  
\> the editor of The Hindu (NY) with more feedbacks/notes/comments from  
\> the learned scholar-memebrs of this forum.

If I may, that sort of response would be scarcely effective. While we  
are outraged by the misrepresentations and falsehoods in the book, to  
write to the editor of some newspaper which has published a review of  
the same is surely not the best we can do. It would be better to  
prepare a scholarly monograph or anthology/special volume in response,  
or at the very least, a scholarly criticism of the book in some  
suitable journal (having read it in full first, of course).

Doniger manifests the Hindu-bashing syndrome also evident in such  
works as Katherine Mayo's infamous book "Mother India," which Gandhiji  
aptly described as a "gutter inspector's report." Those of us who  
have been online for a while will recall that there was a controversy  
in the 90s about one of Doniger's students who wrote a Ph.D. thesis  
claiming that Ramakrishna Paramahamsa was a homosexual (in general,  
issues of sexuality come up very strongly, and often inappropriately  
in my opinion, in the works of Doniger and her followers). While this  
conclusion could be justified by some, people have noted that most of  
the primary sources re RK are in the Bengali language, which neither  
Doniger nor the doctoral student knew, and that these sources were not  
referenced in the research.

Regards,

Shrisha Rao

\> Piyali Palit  

