+++
title = "000 rniyengar"

+++
[[rniyengar	2010-07-29, 11:52:00 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/mzuom9kJZs4)]]



Dear Scholars:  
There have been recently posts on whether the concept of Chakras is  
Vaidika. Some seem to feel it is derived from the S'aakta tradition  
even if the roots of this tradition are not clear. My humble  
submission is this:  
When we talk of Vaidika traditioin we have to first decide what  
constitutes "Veda". Without going into semantics, let us agree that  
the Samhita, BraahmaNa, AaraNyaka and the Upanis.ad are the Vedas.  
Next, what would be the chronological order? Broadly speaking,  
Upanis.ads are accepted to be Veda+anta; hence they are the most  
recent. The time frame taken for the development of this huge corpus  
is anybody's guess. Even though RV samhita is accepted by everyone as  
the most ancient, there is a timewise variation among the 10 manDalas.  
This itself may represent a time span of some 1000 years! Also where  
this huge Veda literary base was developed? Not in one family or in  
one ashram or in one janapada. Hence what may be considered vaidika in  
one region today may not be thought to be so in another region. We  
have to keep this distinction in mind when we look for important  
aspects of modern Hinduism in the Vedas. The basic concept of mystic  
spots (later refered as chakra) in the psychic body is already found  
in the NaarayaNa sukta of the Yajurveda: .......adho-nis.t.yaa  
vitastyaante naabhyaam uparitis.t.hati \| hr.dayam  
tadvijaaniiyaat.....etc. This appears to have been developed further  
by the time of the Upanis.ads where we find not just intellectual  
arguments but practices also. The Mahanarayan Upanis.ad mentions the  
five kos'as (annamaya praaNamaya manomaya vijn\~aanamaya aanandamaya)  
which is a parallel line of theorization of the inner psyche. We can  
not say whether this came out of the Sukta refered above or was  
independent.  
  
As per tradition there are 108 Upanis.ads. The Naada-bindu-upanis.ad  
mentions the one to one correspondence between the sevn vyaahr.tis  
(bhuh.-bhuvah.-suvah.-mahah.-janah.-tapah.-satyam) and the seven  
locations in the body (paada, jaanu, kaTi, naabhi, hr.daya, kaNTha,  
bhru). The name of the Upanis.ad itself is very significant since it  
relates naada the sound of the vyaahr.tis (used in the sandhyavandana  
daily by vaidikas) to locations in the body. There is another text  
"yogaraaja [upanis.ad](http://upanis.ad)". This mentions clearly NINE CHAKRAS  
  
navasveva hi cakres.u layam kr.tvaa mahaatmabhih.\|  
prathamam brahma-cakram syaat triraavr.tta bhagaakr.ti\|\| 5\|\|  
apaane muulakandaakhyam kaamaruupam ca tajjaguh.\|  
tadeva vahnikuNDam syaat tatva-kuNDalinii tathaa\|\|6\|\|  
  
I will not post the complete text. But this text lists nine chakras by  
name: Muula, svaadhis.t.haana, naabhi, hr.daya, kanTha, taalakaa,  
bhruucakra, brahmarandhra, vyomacakra.  
This mentions that Hr.dayacakra is adhomukha, which is as per the  
Narayana sukta of the central core vaidika tradition mentioned above.  
  
Without prolonging the writeup I like to propose that the socalled  
S'aakta tradition is just a fall out of the Vaidika tradition. The  
S.at.cakra-niruupaNa is a variant of the later Upanis.ads some of  
which are not too well known to the average Hindus even now. Learned  
Pandits in the group may like to elaborate on the above points.  
  
I could not write in devanagari since I don't know which software I  
have to use in this group.  
  
Regards  
  
RN Iyengar  
  
  

