+++
title = "001 VKG"

+++
[[VKG	2010-07-30, 06:30:59 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/mzuom9kJZs4)]]



Pranaam!  
  
Let us not mix two different perspectives.  
  
Traditional Perspective of Not Dating the Vedic Literature. (This  
school of thought beleive, all of them had same origination from  
Paramaatman.) It might be the case, different Rishis, had their  
vision, at different periods. This school of thought obliterates the  
argument of dating practice (Similar Janma Kundali to a person) by  
focusing the holes and contradictions of the other perspective.  
  
Western Historians' perspective, is to push the dating as much recent  
as possible, to lessen the antiquity. Though some commendable studies  
had happened in this effort, these theories are fully of  
contradictions. Nothing can be said conclusively. (As Indian Text  
books in Mccauly education pattern, teach the british perspective, all  
the people educated in schools tend to believe the latter version, in  
spite of its defects.)  
  
Whereas Vedic Tradition is regarded, as Samhita, Brahmana, Aaranyaka  
and Upanishat; affiliated to each Veda Sakha (which are/ were in the  
practice of study). In this context 10 - 11 Upanishad texts are  
qualified generally to be included in Vedic Tradition.  
  
Other 97/ 98 Upanishad texts have many special aspects contrary/  
divergent to each. Where as Sarabha Upanishat mentions the punishment  
of Narasimha by Shiva in the form of Sarabaha. Some mention about the  
birth process, Philosophy, Yogic practices, renunciation, often laden  
with history etc.  
  
These 97 Upanishad texts are regarded, as ancillary texts (which are  
not supported by commentaries, often). However, many ancillary texts  
along with other texts are enlisted as part of Vedic Culture.  
  
The difference: Vedic Texts (Other than smaller parts such as chapters  
- Sooktas, Anuvakas), generally do not focus/ promote a particular  
pantheon, such as Ganapati/ Devi etc. Whereas, this type of texts  
focus on just one deity.  
  
Those, who worship every form of Almighty are regarded as Smaarta/  
Vaidika Parampara/ Sanaatana Dhaarmika etc. Whereas those, who are  
limiting their focus to a particular form and name of the Almighty are  
termed as Upaasakas of that Pantheon; such as Shaiva/ Vaishnava/  
Shakta etc.  
  
In the back ground of above explanation; the Shaakta Origin of Chakras  
is to be understood.  
  
Regards  
Vamshi Krishna Ghanapathi  



