+++
title = "000 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2014-08-19, 22:42:35 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/jYhQY890VBE)]]



August 19, 2014



Thanks Nibedita for referring to Kushan period in connection to Shaiva worship. In the ancient northern India there were people Matta mayurakas having coins of Peacock the carrier of Kartik swami. There is some connection to Yaudheyas. There was also a tribe by the name Kumaara at the same time.



It would be interesting to know the etymology of the word Kumaara (if it is a Sanskrit word) from Sanskrit scholars of this list. Thanks.N.R.Joshi.



----------------------------------------

  
  
---------- Original Message ----------  
From: 'Nivedita Rout' via भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत् \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
To: "[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()" \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} History of Shaivism  
Date: Tue, 19 Aug 2014 12:19:08 +0800  
  

One need to look at the history of Kushan period, for there are rulers previous to Kaniska, devoted to Saiva religion.

For the quick reference: Siva is depicted clearly on ancient coins (dated 1st c AD -- 2nd c AD) issued by some of Kushana kings.





**<http://www.coinproject.com/search_emperor.php?emp=Vima-Kadphises&region=KUSHAN-EMPIRE&type=12>**

****

**Regards,**

**Nibedita**

****

****

**From:** Ravi Shankar \<[bjravi...@gmail.com]()\>  
**To:** sunil bhattacharjya \<[skbhatt...@gmail.com]()\>  
**Cc:** BHARATIYA VIDVAT \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
**Sent:** Tuesday, August 19, 2014 12:21 AM  
**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} History of Shaivism  

  

Thank You Sunilji and Ganesanji.

I am not sure if Shashti is known to Kalidasa.II?!

Even ancient Tamil literature extant now is silent on that.

How Raghuvamsa is known by Raghu while he is not the founder or progenitor?

Please give the information about inscriptions or literary sources to prove the antiquity or Shaivism and its institutions.

In your earlier thread you were claiming that Sankarite institutions were established on the model of Shaivite Mutts.

Please show evidences.  
  
  

  

Regards  
Ravishankar  
[+91 9901599500](tel:+91%2099015%2099500)  
[bjravi...@gmail.com]()

  
  

On Mon, Aug 18, 2014 at 11:34 PM, sunil bhattacharjya \<[skbhatt...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> > 
> > Dear friends,  
>   
> In this context of Kumara -worship we can also look at the relevance > of Kalidasa-II's Kumarasambhavam'. Firstly Kalidasa-II gives his own > time as the 1st century BCE in his Jyotirvidabharanam, where he also > mentions his three kavyas, which includes the Kumarasambhavam and > Raghuvamsham. The Nepali scholars claim the Kalidasa -II to be from > Nepal, as Kalidasa-II wrote the Kumarasambhavam and the name "Kumara" > is the name most commonly used for Kartikeya, the son of > Pasupatinath, in Nepal alone and nowhere else. Further the Kumara's > birthday "Shithi" is observed with great pomp in Nepal, from the > ancient times and Kalidasa should have been familiar with that. This > festival is called "Shithinakha". From this it appears that > Kumara-woship was there in Nepal even before the 1st century BCE.  
>   
> > 
> > Regards,  
> > 
> > 
> >   
>   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > On Mon, Aug 18, 2014 at 12:00 AM, Dr. T. Ganesan > \<[gan...@ifpindia.org]()\> wrote: >
> 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > >   
> > Dear Ravishankar,  
> > As you say KumAra worship was wide spread through the country in the > > early periods. As many of us know, the Gupta king KumAragupta, > > Skandagupta were all staunch devotees of KumAra. In their oficial > > coins we find the images of Skanda-kumAra seated on peacock which is > > also well known. We have the very famous mahAkAvya KumArasambhava by > > mahAkavi kAlidAsa at such an early period.  
> > It is also a fact that KuAra was worshipped as a child (Skanda), as > > an young man (kumAra) as an icon for valour, and as one of his names > > clearly states, He is \[Deva\] senApati, and we have the name senAnI > > in the Amarakosa as one of his many names.  
> > It is very interesting to note that the ancient name for Abbotabad > > was Kumarastan in the 1st century inscription. It is a very > > important information and it definitely pushes the KumAra worship > > still earlier.  
> >   
> > Then coming to the prevalence of Saiva Agama in many parts of north > > and central India, as I had written earlier in the same thread and > > elesewhere, we have many number of inscriptions spread in the > > Ganga-NarmadA Doab about the Saiva MaTha-s such as GolakI, Amardaka, > > etc. even as early as the 5th century.  
> > There are also many inscriptions in Kalinga, Odisha, and the present > > Chattisgarh state related to many of the Pashupata maTha-s, AcArya-s > > and theie royal dynasties who patronised them and themselves became > > Pashupata-s, declare themselves Parama MAheshvara-s which fully > > testify to the wide spread popularity of the Saiva and Pashupata > > maTha-s and monastic lineages. Hundreds of Siva temples in these > > regions and especially in Odisha and kalinga contructed by these > > royal personages have the images of Lakulisa in them.  
> > An excellent and pioneering research has been done by one Mr. > > Lakshman Kumar Panda entitled "Saivism in Orissa" fully based on the > > available inscriptions pertaining to 4th-7th century.  
> > Similarly there are other studies on the Saiva maTha-s in different > > regions.  
> >   
> >   
> > Ganesan > > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > >   
> >   
> > On 12-08-2014 15:59, Ravishankar J wrote:  
> > > > > Dear Sri Prof. Ganesanji and other Respected Scholars.  
> > > I have a query on the thread about Shaivite inscriptions, > > > sculptures etc. which you have been quoting in a thread on > > > Pushpagiri Matha.  
> > > One scholar Sri. R Krishnan is working on a book on Subrahmanya > > > aka Murugan worship told me about an inscription belonging to 1st > > > AD  
> > > about a Subrahmanya temple near Abbotabad, Pakistan. It says the > > > the name of the place as Kumara Sthan surprisingly.  
> > > There is also a Somaskanda Vigraha which i saw in Gwalior museum > > > around the same date.  
> > > I find there is a correlation.  
> > > It seems to be a misconception that Agama practices are Dravidian > > > and originated from south.  
> > > However the truth seems to be otherwise.  
> > > Please throw some light on the worship of Shiva from Afghan-Assam > > > & Kashmir to Kanyakumari with references.  
> > > Pranams & Thank You  
> > >   
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > > > --  
> > निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
> > --- You received this message because you are subscribed to the > > Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> > To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, > > send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> > To post to this group, send email to > > [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> > Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
> > For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.  
> > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

--  
निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
---  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

  
  



--  
निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
---  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**4 Fish to Never Eat**  
Click to Learn 4 Fish to NEVER Eat (avoid these like the plague!)  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/53f385171381651654e0st03vuc)[InflammationSolution.com](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/53f385171381651654e0st03vuc)

