+++
title = "011 Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)	2014-08-05, 11:22:44 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/I6lo8zI4fsU)]]







Namaste Siddhatha Krishna



Thanks for going through the complex issue of ‘Brahmins profession’ and seeking a reference in the frame of ‘ scriptural statements’ . You have further complicated the issue now, by pulling a quote from Sri Acharya Madhva.

Any way, once the issue is raised publicly, the response needs to be placed in a polite and politically right and scripturally appropriate way. That does not mean everything is right or gels with the ‘ heart’. The broader issue is to go by ‘Sthitasya gatiH chintaneeyaa’ and then make efforts to bring back corrective actions. In this perspective, I am voicing some general observations and some specific observations which is likely to address the issue raised by you:



**Issue raised**: I’m interested in any clear scriptural statement which may either clearly state that cooking is the job of a Shudra or, otherwise, that Shudras are not allowed into the kitchen. /.. I’m just in search of any scriptural reference which either ascribes the job of cooking to a Brahmin (as a possible “vritti”) or where clearly a Brahmin cook is mentioned in any Pauranika story…… / I got interested in this because for example Manu Smriti 10.83 allows “Vaishya-vritti” (jobs of a Vaishya) for a Brahmana. But then the question arises, whose “Vritti” (job) is it to cook for others?



**Suggested General line of analysis**: (i) It is not the scope of ‘ Scriptures as ‘Vedas’ to address the issue raised to say which varna should do what job! . Thus, there is no point in looking for a specific scriptural injunction or otherwise on what a ‘brahmana Jeevikaa vrutti’ has to be. 

It is Dharma Shastra kaaras who use a specific model of understanding the ‘Vedic Guidance’ and provide the contextual general guideline on the theme of recommended professions (vihita), options ( kaamya) , consequences of violations and restorative measures ( Praayschitta). Here the opinions of smriti-karas are at variance. ‘ Smritayascha bhinnaH).

In three thousand years ( span of 1000 BCE to 2000 C.E) india has seen three hundred smriti works; (3000 years and 300 smriti works
covers a maximum of Two hundred Jati’s up to 19th century even under British rule; as documented by M M . P V Kane in History of Dharma Shaastra!) The current Indian government jati classificationcrosses a numeric figure of 6000 plus and still growing ! The post independence Indian Caste listing crosses a figure of Six thousand as ‘ jana-jAti’
and attributes this ‘caste proliferation to Dharma Shaastra ! This is a travesty of historical facts relating to Vedic traditional Dharma Shastra’s. This is going unchallenged in post independence India even by the elite is a wonderful showcasing of the community sensitivity and
great -tolerance ( divya –nirlakshya ??!! ) to live with high handed beating. Still worst part is the so called ‘ Brahman group listing works like Brahmanotpatti martanda’ et al are totally side lined in these debates ! If one takes a look at these kind of monumental and visionary works which have accommodated several socially relevant professions with a diversity of ‘Brahmana Jeevikaa Vrutti’ in a contemporary way for India, the question raised by you does not make any relevance ! For the reference being used to judge what should be the ‘ profession of a Brahman’ is being drawn from a ‘ smriti –segment’ which is no longer applicable. 

 In this sense, the work of a cook is not prohibited to a ‘brahmana’ ! Nor is there a ‘ prayaschtta’ prescribed if the ‘ paachaka vrutti’ is taken, like in the case of selling ‘ surA’ ( Alcohol). (iii) Dharma Shastra is dynamic and looks at the dynamics of society in modifying its guidance in vyavahara and prayaschitta. So is the position about what a Shudra should do or not. The convention is to narrow down the ‘Dharma’ standard to ‘Vidwadbhih sevitah’ – Do as was done by the immediate seniors and peers, in the community / family ; which in other words is a sampradaya –sharanataa.

The ‘time line choice to provide a frame and look at the ‘ sampradaya’
is ones choice. Many times a matter of convenience to meet the ego of the interpreter ! Best examples of this are seen in sagotra vivaha, devalaya related practices, shraaddha –bhojana, anthyeshti karma, prayaschitta, et al. Opening up these issues is like opening up a pandoras box of problems. No Acharya is willing to exercise the authority and provide an update Dharma Shastra over the last documented revision marked as ‘ Nirnaya Sindhu /Dharma Sindhu’.

Just because the books are not modified, at least in the primary issues related to Vyavahara and Prayaschitta (?!) , the society and community has stopped any thing ! The life goes on. We do not have any way to know what has happened to the ‘ pitru’s’ in a different world ( Like the famous story of jaratkAru in Maha bharata /) due to all these ‘rule- line crossing by their vamsha –gotraja’s’. Are they suffering the ‘ lupta-pinDodaka –kriya’ ? We have no information please. And there is no current way to show how all these ‘ rule line crossers/ violators’
have suffered ‘ pitru’s curse and suffering now’ ! Here the topic enters the realm of ‘pure personal belief and faith; and relying on a quotation from a text’.

On \< whose job is to cook for others ? \> – Let us take a look at this issue from Ashrama perspective first and then the Varna perspective. As a generic rule, brahmachari and Sannyasi did not cook for themselves. Gruhasthas were to cook for their family and offer any ‘bhiksha’ to sanyasi /athiti. Vanaprastha is to cook for their own self. From the Varna perspective, each varna had to cook for themselves under the
‘paraanna’ theme .

If one is looking at a scenario of mass feeding as in a social festival / yajna et al, probably the food was prepared by a team and then it was ‘ sanctified by the ‘Brahmana’s ; a living practice even today ( Be it placing a tulsi dala or sprinkling with Mantrodaka and Gayatri ). It has become a matter of faith.

If one had seen the practice of food preparation and hotel business at places like Hotel Dasprakash /Woodlands in Mysore, during 20^(th) century, this issue would have become clear. The modern ‘ Udupi - Hotel systems have gone totally on the commercial route to engage
cheap (shudra ?!) labor and mechanized food production’ catering to the ‘ taste’ of palate ! The food business is no more interested in spirituality. Even the very limited ‘ hastodaka practices / House hold preparation by inviting the contract-engaged brahaman-cook to feed
Pitrus in a gruha shraadha’ has many questionable issues. Further probing here leads to more and more darker issues and challenges faced in traditional Brahmana families and society at large. Hiding the cats pow will not cause the stink to go away. It needs a different kind of courage to address and resolve the issue in the frame of Dharma –Shaastra; That needs to start most courageously with the ‘ Brahmana Community itself’. This is how Jews held their position and crated a niche food –brand market on global scale. 



Coming to Vaishyaa-Vrutti : Even as early as Kalidasa, we have the statement \< keval jeevikaayai.. tam jnana-panyam vanijam vadanti>. Then do you expect a learned brahmana to go hungry in a society ? How does one explain the ‘Vidhushaka / Brahmana ’ serving a king ? The statements made about a Brahmana profession when society respected and took care of ‘Brahaman for the Knowledge services provided are no more relevant in the current context.

If this issue needs to be addressed, the entire system of Temples –Religious endowments control over devalayas where the ‘ archakas are paid salary by the government to do devataa –poojaa’ would have to be classified under ‘ shudra’ tag ?! What then is vaishya vrutti ( Wealth generation and guarding) ? and Shudra Vrutti ( Services which bring in comfort to the consumer model society) ? Brahman Vrutti ( Which causes the knowledge advancement through education of different models), and Kshatriya vrutti ( State administration and protection of law and social order) ? When the authority to regulate society has been moved from Dharma shastra to People-Constitution, When there are no ‘ Dharmika –Rajaa /Dahrmaadhikaari Amatya / Nyaya as Dharma-danDa’ , the rules of Dharma shastra become a guidance for personal religiosity, lacking social relevance. This is the scenario in Bharath since colonial rule. No change in Post independence India. So why speak of Mahabharata reference and other smritikaras and shaastrakaras ?

Summing up, the generic position conclusion would be: ‘ Look at what was done in the last three generations in the contemporary society and follow the best practice’. And where to look at this for Karnataka ?
Please take a look at the records and practices of the Mysore Maharaja’s which had a large ‘ paaka –shaalaa’ and what kind of people were employed. There are living memories fresh in the minds of many mysoreans about the ‘ school hostels’ like banamaih hostel/ poornayya chatra and the like. The palace records and gazetteers of Karnataka should be able to provide the relevant information. So also in the case of major traditional temples where ‘ anna-danam’ is practiced. Check the best practices in Udupi, SriRangam Kanchi, Benares at places beyond the limitation of the ‘Mandirs’; look at the records of the ‘Shreshti’s and Purohita’s’ ! Much useful information would be available.

**Suggested specific lines of analysis**:

On \< an “araalika” (cook) …. etc. see Artha Shastra 1.12.9. Should we assume on the basis of this that while the chief cook used to be a Brahmana, other cooks working under him used to be Shudras? I would like clearer evidence to substantiate this assumption. > : Clearer evidence will come only when more manuscripts and relevant documents are unearthed and studied. In the absence of which, what is the difficulty being encountered ? We are not looking at ‘historic practice’ ! Artha shastra does not prescribe the ‘Brahmana –jeevikaa- Vrutti’, unless that ‘ brahmana’ himself does not have any other skill ! Extending the issue one more step, the work of ‘ family house cooks’ done by the ‘ brahmana widows’ in the last several centuries is a matter of high social sensitivity. Who prescribed or made provisions for it ?? Do we go back to the Upanishad story of ‘aitreya’ to substantiate anything here ?! These would be irrelevant connections.

On \< Argment of upa-veda is unsubstantial> : Paaka –Shastra is a socially relevant Vidya and shaastra, which comes under the regulatory scope of Ayur-Veda, which is a upa-veda. Please contemplate what is covered under Swastha vrutta and dinacharya etc in Ayur-veda .This will help to understand why Paka –shastra is a part of Ayurveda as upa-veda. The fifth chapter of Charak Samhita Sutrasthana deals with Ayurvedic dietetics. What is the right quantity of food in relation to digestion strength, personal hygiene, herbal smoking, nasal drops, oral hygiene, gargling, head massage, foot massage, etc. The chapter name is Matrashiteeya Adhyaya.

On \< Gandharva Veda .. This is clearly stated by Madhavacharya in his Bhashyam on the Parashara Dharma Samhita in the following line:अन्येऽपि केचन धर्माः (शूद्रस्य) सन्तीति गम्यते। ते च देवलेन दर्शिताः – “शूद्रधर्मास्त्रिवर्णशुश्रूषा कलत्रादिपोषणं कर्षण-पशुपालन-भारोद्वहन-पण्यव्यवहार-चित्रकर्म-नृत्य-***गीत-वेणु-वीणा-मुरज-मृदङ्गवादनानि***॥पराशरधर्मसंहिता माधवभाष्यम् आचारकाण्डम् शूद्रधर्मप्रकरणम् १.६४॥ > Let us get our records straight. Bharata- Muni’s Natya Shastra which is way back in history before all the Acharyas, says clearly that Natya is a Veda / a Sangraha of all Vedas. The tradition of Keertanakara’s, the Kusheelava’s, Harikatha-karas and Dasa-Varenyas who excelled in \< Gita-Venu Veenaa –muraja mrudanga vaadana \> is very much seen in \< Vaishnava Sampradyas> . Don’t give me the justification that \< Gita –natya -..> when used for \<Hari Seva> are good ;other wise it is shudra-karma ! The shift in the social conditions and degeneration of ‘ Natya’ from a respectable ‘Veda’ position to a ‘Socially lowly looked position’ is a despicable social change and dynamics. And this scenario has happened by 12^(th) century, where you see the above quote by Sri Madhvacharya. Sri Madhvacharya is quoting \< some opine .. \> as a view from a smriti. It is not a condemnation of the discipline of Natya itself. If that were to be so, how would one explain a Kannada keertane by Sri Purandarda Dasa reading \< Kari Kunidaa namma hari kunidaa.. \> ?

And post 12^(th) century, one need to trace what were the situations which lead to the social formation of ‘ Udupi Hotels’ where the ‘Brahamana –Pachakas’ opted for the ‘ anna-vikraya’ as a ‘ jeevikaa- vrutti’ ?? If one looks at the 19^(th) century records of Karnataka, the ‘ Shivalli Brahamana Coffee clubs’ were supposed to be ‘ Social cafeteria’s where Brahamans prepared and controlled the food trade’ and had the Shudra’s to do the menial jobs. Just quoting history ; no offence intended for any community. Eating in a Shivalli hotel was considered as a ‘sin’ ! So was the situation of ‘famous Vidyarthi Bhavan’ at Bangalore ! as documented in the writings of contemporary kannada writers like DVG , Maasti et al.

On \< Vishnu Purana ..quoting Mahabharata ..and linking to the seven Paka yajnas meant for a specific Brahmana category and life style>
there is too much of mix up in time line and cross referencing . If you really want to look for a shudra and yajna-performance relations, take a look at meemamsa shastra. You will get enough references. The real problem that seems to be haunting in this deliberation is explaining \<
Bheema’s serving as a cook at Virata’s palace> and accommodating that in the light of specific Vedanta-faith frame work. One can surely go on and provide ingenious explanations.

On the point \< it clearly points to the fact that in ancient India Shudras were allowed to enter kitchens and even cook food for kings and emperors.> How is this connected with \<Brahmana’s profession as a cook> ?? And what is the time line to mark the \< ancient India> - does it start from Mahabharata ( 3000 BCE or earlier) OR Ayurveda /Artha Shaastra ( circa 200 BCE ) OR 1200 C E ( around Sri Madhvacharya) OR 1900 C E when the services of Brahmans as Cooks and Food trader -entrepreneurs became a socially significant profession ? 

I request the scholars to deliberate and guide on the above points.

Regards

BVK Sastry





On Mon, Aug 4, 2014 at 11:16 PM, Siddhartha Krishna \<[vedab...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:



For some reason I'm unable to post my answer to the questions raised in the thread started by me about a Brahmana being a cook. So, I'm posting my detailed analysis here. Respected Moderators may inform me what to do in this case. Thank you.



Dear Dr. Shastri ji,

Namaste,

Thank you very much for your detailed analysis of the issue at hand. Indeed, very enlightening and inspiring.

Artha Shastra is of no help other than it mentions (see 1.19.23) Mahanashika (chief cook) between a chikitsaka (physician) and mauhurtika (astrologer), which are clearly both occupations of a Brahmana. But then on the other hand it mentions an “araalika” (cook) along with persons occupied with professions that we would generally ascribe to the Shudras, such as snapaka (procurer of water for bathing), Astaraka (spreader of bed), kalpaka (barber) and prasaadhaka (toilet maker) etc. see Artha Shastra 1.12.9. Should we assume on the basis of this that while the chief cook used to be a Brahmana, other cooks working under him used to be Shudras? I would like clearer evidence to substantiate this assumption.

I’m fully aware of the sensitivity of the issue. If my statement above did hurt anybody’s sentiments, I apologize for that. It was meant as an ironical statement which stated the obvious consequences of what Shri Ajit Gargeshwari ji was suggesting, obviously I didn’t mean it.

I’m just in search of any scriptural reference which either ascribes the job of cooking to a Brahmin (as a possible “vritti”) or where clearly a Brahmin cook is mentioned in any Pauranika story.

I got interested in this because for example Manu Smriti 10.83 allows “Vaishya-vritti” (jobs of a Vaishya) for a Brahmana. But then the question arises, whose “Vritti” (job) is it to cook for others? The fact that Bhima who was looking for the job of a cook found no need to pose himself as a Brahmana, while Yudhishthira clearly had to pose himself as a Brahmana to get the job of “Kanka”, struck me quite oddly. Does this mean that the occupation of a cook is not a “brahmana-vritti”? Then whose occupation it was supposed to be in the ancient times.

Furthermore, the argument of Upaveda is unsubstantial. I say so for two reasons. 1. Paka-shastra is not part of any Upa-Veda. 2. Gandharva Veda is an Upaveda, yet it is clearly considered the domain of the Shudras by the Dharma Shastras. This is clearly stated by Madhavacharya in his Bhashyam on the Parashara Dharma Samhita in the following line:अन्येऽपि केचन धर्माः (शूद्रस्य) सन्तीति गम्यते। ते च देवलेन दर्शिताः – “शूद्रधर्मास्त्रिवर्णशुश्रूषा कलत्रादिपोषणं कर्षण-पशुपालन-भारोद्वहन-पण्यव्यवहार-चित्रकर्म-नृत्य-***गीत-वेणु-वीणा-मुरज-मृदङ्गवादनानि***॥पराशरधर्मसंहिता माधवभाष्यम् आचारकाण्डम् शूद्रधर्मप्रकरणम् १.६४॥

Why I assume that the job of a cook was not considered a Brahmana’s job, but that of a Shudra, because: Vishnu Purana (3.8.33) –दानं च दद्याच्छूद्रोपि पाकयज्ञैर्यजेत चand the Mahabharata– ताभ्यां शूद्रः पाकयज्ञैर्यजेताव्रतवान् स्वयम् (शान्तिपर्व)– clearly prescribe a Yajna calledपाकयज्ञfor the Shudras.There are 7 Paka-yajnas -अष्टक, स्थालीपाक, पर्वण, श्रावणी, आग्रहयणी, चैत्रीandआश्वीयुजी. These yajnas involve consecrating cooked items. The fact that Shudras performed these Yajnas in ancient times impels me to suppose that originally the job of a cook was that of a Shudra, and not that of a Brahmana. But, still I would like to find further substantial proof for such an assumption, because right now it is just a conjecture based on some obscure facts. However, Bhima’s episode as found in the Mahabharata, and the mentioning of a cook along with those who clearly have occupations thought to be practiced only by Shudras, as stated above by me, seems to strengthen this view.

If this is the case, then it clearly points to the fact that in ancient India Shudras were allowed to enter kitchens and even cook food for kings and emperors. Then from where came into existence this practice of not allowing them today into the kitchen?

Therefore, I’m interested in any clear scriptural statement which may either clearly state that cooking is the job of a Shudra or, otherwise, that Shudras are not allowed into the kitchen. This is the reason I started this thread. Thank you.

To Shri ShivaSenani Nori ji:

सादरं प्रणमामि। शिष्टाचारस्त्वन्त्यं प्रमाणमिति प्राहुः प्राज्ञाः। श्रुतिस्मृत्योः किञ्चित्प्रमाणमुपलभ्यते नवेति मम प्रश्नः। अथ यदि चायं शिष्टाचारः, तर्हि किमयमाधुनिकः, प्राचीनो वा? यदि प्राचीनः, तर्हि शास्त्रेषु क्व तादृशः शिष्टाचारः परिदृश्यते। मम विचारेण तु परस्मै भोजनस्य पाचनं सेवावृत्तिः? एषा सेवावृत्तिः कदा ब्राह्मणैः समारब्धेत्यस्य विषये किञ्चिदैतिहासिकं प्रमाणमपेक्षितम्, तावदेव। स्वयंपाकादीनि व्रतानि भोजनस्य सात्त्विकत्वादिकं तु सम्यक्तयाऽवबुध्यते मया।तत्र तु पाकयज्ञादिनिर्वाहस्य शूद्रस्य पाचकत्वेपि न कश्चिद्दोषः प्रतिभाति मामित्युपर्येव सविस्तरं निरूपितमिति तत्रैव पश्यन्तु कृपया। सादरं नमो नमः॥



--  
निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
---  
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
Visit this group at <http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat>.  
For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

No virus found in this message.  
Checked by AVG - [www.avg.com](http://www.avg.com)  
Version: 2014.0.4744 / Virus Database: 3986/7967 - Release Date: 08/02/14

