+++
title = "018 Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)	2014-08-07, 11:01:20 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/I6lo8zI4fsU)]]



Namaste



To link the discussion thread, I am copying the response of Dr.R.Ganesh , Shatavadhani ( in another post – for this question), and placing my views. This thread has many points which have the potential of being quoted out of context and cause disharmony and disturbance across communities. The ‘FAITH’ is personal. The PRACTCE OF FAITH is contextual. Demand to override and existing practice by invoking a past –period rule in the name of ‘ implementing the social justice’ with power of administration would lead to disastrous consequences. 



1. **The crux of the question raised** On Mon, Aug 4, 2014 at 11:16 PM,
by Siddhartha Krishna \<[vedab...@gmail.com]()\> was : \< मम विचारेण तु परस्मै भोजनस्य पाचनं सेवावृत्तिः? एषा सेवावृत्तिः कदा ब्राह्मणैः समारब्धेत्यस्य विषये किञ्चिदैतिहासिकं प्रमाणमपेक्षितम्, तावदेव। \>.



2. The discussions have brought out that there are references giving reason to construct the available texts as ‘historic provisions’ in (a) Apastambha Gruhya sutra ( which generally would apply to the community under that gotra-sutra-pravara; and not for all, unless specifically endorsed !) ( b) Artha Shastra mentions (see 1.19.23) Mahanashika (chief cook) between a chikitsaka (physician) and mauhurtika (astrologer), which are clearly both occupations of a Brahmana. But then on the other hand it mentions an “araalika” (cook).. (c ) Manu Smriti 10.83 allowing “Vaishya-vritti” (jobs of a Vaishya) for a Brahmana; which by extension could lead to more alternative professions, including that of a cook (d ) Mahabharata– ताभ्यां शूद्रः पाकयज्ञैर्यजेताव्रतवान् स्वयम् (शान्तिपर्व)– clearly prescribe a Yajna calledपाकयज्ञfor the Shudras.There are 7 Paka-yajnas -अष्टक, स्थालीपाक, पर्वण, श्रावणी, आग्रहयणी, चैत्रीandआश्वीयुजी. These yajnas involve consecrating cooked items. The fact that Shudras performed these Yajnas in ancient times impels me to suppose that originally the job of a cook was that of a Shudra, and not that of a Brahmana.





3**. Now the question still remains:** \< "Then from where came into existence this practice of not allowing them today into the kitchen?
Therefore, I’m interested in any clear scriptural statement which may either clearly state that cooking is the job of a Shudra or, otherwise, that Shudras are not allowed into the kitchen. This is the reason I started this thread." >



4. If the detail at point 2 are closely analyzed for their
‘historicity’ , it appears that **when the ‘Four fold Varna-Ashrama Dharma’ was clearly a prevalent social order , implementable and enforceable by law and social consensus,** it allowed ‘Sat-Shudras’ in the Vedic traditional sense ( and not the modern derogatory sense), all the above provisions; and it seems reasonable to maintain the socio-spiritual and socio-religious harmony. Historicity wise, this would be the time of Mahabharata say around 3000 BCE ( upper limit ?!).



Post this period, the ‘Four fold Varna-Ashrama Dharma’ has yielded progressively to ‘ Varna-Ashrama –Sankara System of society; aka jaati –kula –mata society’. Dharma Shastras have progressively brought in the stricter regimentation of the provisions regarding the intra-group functionality and participation, after recognizing this changes. This evolution is called as ‘Sampradaya –pracartana’ – A historic socio-religious dynamics in community religious life styles. Just as a ‘ jaati-brahmana’ ( a brahmana title claimant by birth only) can not seek the privileges of a ‘ Rishi /Acharya – level Brahmana’, the ‘ shudra’ cannot legitimately invoke the provisions that were allotted to a
‘Sat-Shudra/ Veda compliant Shudra’. This scenario leads to a lot of heart burn amongst brahmanas and shudras also; as it hurts the ‘ ego-pride –social standing’ sentiments and harmony of relations.



5. The purpose of ‘ Sat-Sampradaya-pravarataka’ acharya’s is looking at inappropriate invoking of the ‘ rule book provisions’ to an in-appropriate context’ and cause social turmoil along with inefficacy of Karma, distortion of ‘shraddhaa’ – a total confusion, which in Gita terms is ‘ Buddhi –Bheda- Janana’ . All Acharyas were in this sense,
Sadachara –Sat-Sampradaya pravartakas of their time, looking at the present time and future. The acharyas were not time locked to the ‘ past verdicts’.



6. What matters here and now is this : Is the goal of Shaastra achieved without causing confusion ? and disharmony ? The related relevant question and socially significant one would be this. This is a self-introspection of a challenging nature : ‘ Is the ancient Shaastra-vidhi applicable and appropriate for me in the current context ? Am I following the right rule and procedure ? An example: As a brahmachari, if I need to go and seek five houses bhikshaa, am I ready to do it ? Are there five houses which give me the bhikshaa ? Would that be Brahmana houses ? So, if it is not there, am I going to starve OR find an alternative? Under what provisions?



The social adjustments to the challenges of ‘fragmentation and atomic units, the economies, the job-diversities and related challenges’ are not waiting for a rule from Shaastra-kara.



7\. Coming back, Apply this ‘Dharma Shaastra’ procedure meticulously on the current society and observe the outcome. Close to 90% of current Sampradaya teams are working with ‘ shraddhaa –jaadya’ (Creatures of habit and confusion continued, without critical thinking, in the name of compliance to traditional continuity = shaastra ).



This is good in a way, as it maintains at least the shell intact so that analysis can be done by someone at an appropriate time. This is bad , as it leaves a bad trail of doing things mechanically without true understanding of the doing ; and worst is overloading the actions with inaccurate understanding and interpretations. For example : The explanation of the mandatory Sandhya-vandanam is a classic example in this case. Many other ‘ sampradaya – actions and constraints ( like stuck to water to be drawn only from a man made well for Gods worship, concepts of ‘madi –vastra ( even if the clothe is dirty to the level of acchedyoyam, adaahyoyam ) – just to give some examples.



In other words, when ‘Shaastra –Text ( = Shaastra-Shaasana /Vidhi) is not fine tuned with the Sadachara-Sat-Sampradaya continuity for context, then the deviations suggested would have to be ignored.

This recommendation of contextualization and contemporaization was the job of a ‘ kula-purohita’- which has almost vanished in to thin air in the urban life style. The new breed is ‘ professional contractual Vedic Priests’. This is where the relevance of a famous quote from achraya becomes significant : ‘Sakala-shaastra-vit api , ‘A-SAMPRADAAYAVIT
upekshyah’ .



8. Keeping this much in mind, the historicity of not allowing a ‘Shudra’ in to ‘Brahmana –house hold kitchen’ as a social practice can be safely placed around / prior to 10^(th) century, using the incidents in Sri Ramanujacharyas narrated history. The system was followed with more rigor and fervor for some centuries, making it a strong part of sampradaya.



9. Should one ignore this now and allow new practices in a global scenario ? Should one have an enterprise like ‘ udupi brahmana bhojana mandirs’ ?? and allow every one to eat there ?? The issue is left to the choice of individuals, and their own self-declared pride of
‘Varna –Status Compliance’. OR should I call it a ‘blind eye turning to the social side of scriptures? ‘



 Should the established traditional institutions violate the existing system of ‘only Brahmins in the kitchen where prasadam is cooked for Gods offering’ ? My considered Answer is that ‘ No Changes needed’. Existing system status quo need to be continued to maintain harmony and peace.



What if the new formats of ‘ Devalayas and institutions take for a violation of the traditional rule and demand opportunities and equalities ? Their Karma takes over their choice actions ! As no social regulation can be implemented.



 What are options available to an individual ? Each individual is free to make their conscious, responsible choices, like the kind of dress they wear for comfort and context. One can ignore and say that the rule does not apply to this case; one can take to Prayaschitta –expiatory approach; one can keep a two coat model- One for house and one for social life.



The only thing that may need to be seriously guarded is the intervention of State /National administration in the administration practices of ‘ Religion’ quoting the ‘ references and provisions’ as at point (2) and demanding modifications in current institutions. The override of
practicing traditions under the garb of implementing ‘social justice’ directives using administration power would be disastrous.



Regards

BVK Sastry





**From:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() \[mailto:[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\] **On Behalf Of** Nagaraj Paturi  
**Sent:** Tuesday, 05 August, 2014 9:55 AM  
**To:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
**Cc:** Ganesan T  
**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} कथं पाचको ब्राह्मणः स्यात्?



"many other Bhakti traditions" here refers only to those Bhakti traditions which have thefeature described here in them.







