+++
title = "005 R. N. iyengar"

+++
[[R. N. iyengar	2021-09-18, 15:15:43 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/B8e7O6zHXMY)]]



Dear Dr.Paturi, I am not interested in joining issues with you. You have made a long belaboured post. I like to respond briefly, shown below in blue.

On Thursday, September 16, 2021 at 9:43:22 PM UTC+5:30 Nagaraj Paturi wrote:

> 
> > 
> > I am responding here, first as a person representing Indic Academy in > response to your negative remarks about the organization for what is > published on Indic Today , one of the platforms of the organization.
> > 
> > 



I have not made any negative remarks about the organization you represent. Read my post again.

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > The article under discussion is not published as part of publishing > the proceedings of our conference on "Puranas and Indic Knowledge > Systems" >
> 
> > 
> > <https://youtu.be/lOkysD1iJNc> >
> 
> > 
> > Link to her presentation of the same at another platform
> > 
> > 
> > <https://youtu.be/DEYllxYqXLs> >
> 
> > 
> > The proposal of the paper was seen as part of the analysis of 'lore' > in the Puranas focusing on forms of physical landscape. How that > coverage in the Puranas is analysed belongs to the analyst. > Participants and other panelists have the opportunity to express their > disagreement with the paper presenter during the Q & A part of the > conference, related to each paper.
> > 
> > 
> > Even if there was a paper taking a diametrically opposite approach to > that of Smt Rupa, we would have allowed. In fact , in the Q & A and
> in one of the other papers there was such a different / counter > direction /approach reflected.
> > 
> > 

I am not demanding or even seeking any type of explanation from you or IA, about how you select papers for your conferences.

> 
> > 
> > Giving opportunity to present such different approaches can not be and > should not be viewed as promotion. Our promotion was for our Puranas > that too as repositories of Indic Knowledge Systems. Parvata lore is > an Indic Knowledge System. We were promoting Puranas as the sources of > such knowledge.
> > 
> > 
> > We always proceedby taking it for granted that pro-Indic /pro-Hindu > knowledge that we are committed to work for is not monolithic, it has > a large diversity of approaches.
> > 
> > 
> > Our providing platform for sharing one of such approaches is neither > promotion of that approach, nor a promotion of the individual sharing > that approach.
> > 
> > 

I have nothing against encouragement and promotion of pro-Hindu knowledge traditions and IKS. The word ‘promotion’ is not mine; it appears in your website for anyone to see.I only pointed out the absurdity of the article being published as a*Research Paper*professing to present astronomical study of PT for Indic chronology, concluding that The**Agastya-Vindhyā lore is at least 21000+ years old.**My sadness is because pro-Hindu do-gooders, naïve as they are, shoot their own foot to become easy fodder for the DGH brigade.

IMHO, this is the bottomline or even common sense about the way organizations and their units or platforms or activities or events work.

> 
> > 
> > In this background , I am appalled by your hasty characterization of > our work as promotion of an individual or an approach or a position.
> > 
> > 

Irrelevant and hollow pontification. When someone calls a spade a spade, if you are appalled, so be it.

> 
> > 
> > Particularly in the present case I was not able to understand what you > were objecting to in the article published. All that I am able to see > that might concern you is the author's use of your English translation > of a Sanskrit work.
> > 
> > 

It is quite apparent that you have not understood the scientific intricacies involved about axial precession, visibility of stars and their logical (including*arthāpatti*) importance for Vedic-Hindu chronology.

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Did the author misquote words, passages or sentences from your > translation ? Is the wrong quoting, ifany, from your translation > what you call the sin of the author ? Do you want Indic Academy to > check withyour original translation for misquoting before publishing? > If that is the case, please point out where in the article such > misquoting occurred. We will publish a correction with due apologies > for not checking with your original translation and will take care of > such aspects in future.  
> > 
> > 

I am not answering your circular queries item wise, nor looking for an apology from any one. PT text is quoted by Utpala and Ballālasena. I have only compiled the material and published along with a “working translation of technical material” for further study. The author does*Time Travel*to the previous precession cycle by inserting the choice phrase*“***due to the effect of very slow motion of pole/axis*-“*not to be found in the original Sanskrit and obviously not in my translation. The gem of observational astronomy of Parāśara is the rise and set conditions of Agastya stated asहस्तस्थे सवितर्युदेति रोहिणीसंस्थे प्रविशति॥the author found no use for this even though it is discussed in my publication.  

  

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > I know from your posts on BVP that you have serious disagreement with > the approach of the likes of Smt Rupa Bhaty.
> > 
> > 

So what?

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Is that approach with which you have disagreement, the sin of the > author and in turn that of IA, because it published a conference paper > with that approach ?
> > 
> > 
> > Or, using your translation for such approachwhich is wrong according > to you is wrong on the part of the author and in turn on the part of > Indic Academy for not checking for the difference of approach between > the translator and the author using the translation ? >
> 
> > 
> > I know many Marxist authors using English translations of Sanskrit > works by translators not holding any political /ideological position > like that of Marxism or sometimes by translators holding a political > /ideological position opposed to Marxism. I don't think these > translators would object to the use of their translations by such > authors.
> > 
> > 
> > If the Marxist author says that the translator is a supporter of his > argument because it is his/her translation that he /she is using, that > is wrong. (I don't think any Marxist authordid that or would do > that.) >
> 
> > 
> > If Smt Rupa said that Prof. Iyengar, the translator of PT that she is > quoting is a supporter of her argument, it is similarly wrong. >
> 
> > 
> > If the editors of Indic Today allowed such wrong knowing that the > translator has a position opposite to hers, it is wrong on the part of > the editors and on the part of IA. But in general how can any editors > know the position difference between the translator and author ? So > how can IA be held responsible even if Smt Rupa committed the wrong > of saying that Prof. Iyengar, the translator of PT that she is quoting > is a supporter of her argument. >
> 
> > 

These are vaporous lawyer-like leading questions, combined with statements lacking in content that need no response.

> 
> > 
> > (The author uses the original Sanskrit text as the source being > discussed by him /her or as a point in support of his argument or > claim. Translation is used only as a compensation for the lack of > knowledge of or confidence with regard to the understanding of the > original Sanskrit text on the part of the author. Using one > translation in preference for the other of the same text only shows a > respect for or authority attributed to the translator and his / her > translation.)
> > 
> > 

The above in parenthesis is like*svagatam*in Sanskrit dramas. I have nothing to say.

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > In view of the above, your accusing IA for publishing the present > conference paper is not justifiable.
> > 
> > 

I have not accused IA. The abstract of the paper claims:*"This paper will present original research carried out by the author*" and is published by IA under the category - Research Paper. In view of this,yours is a one-sided imaginary judgement.

> 
> > 
> > Dragging the names of suchstalwarts as Professors MD Srinivas, > M.Danino and K.Ramasubramanian on our Council into the discussion > about some happenings in some part of IA too is unfair.
> > 
> > 

I did not drag the said names. I took the names with due reverence for a worthy cause, unlike your imputation of unfairness to my well meant comment; a stark example of

**अप्रियस्य च पथ्यस्य**वक्ता श्रोता च दुर्लभः॥

Nevertheless, I wish IAgets peer review done, before purported**original research papers**, on Indicsciences, astronomy and chronology, are promoted/published.

sincerely,

  

RN Iyengar



