+++
title = "014 ram"

+++
[[ram	2017-02-10, 00:59:05 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/nsXKt2Z5jys)]]



May I draw the attention of the moderator to the use of the phrase \`outright ludicrous' used by the reviewer. I wonder if silly or stupid is any more stronger than that.

That said, let me also point out that the remarks are confined to the work and not the individual. I am also quite conscious of the statement of Sita, as beautifully put by Valmiki -- न कश्चिन्नापराद्ध्यति \| Every individual has limitations of various types.  

There is nothing wrong in not knowing Sanskrit. Perfectly understandable. But there is something seriously wrong in not recognizing one's limitations and attempting to provide etymological derivations of words which are totally egregious, and particularly in a work classified as \`non-fiction' as rightly pointed out by the reviewer at the very beginning of his review.  

Paturi ji in his mail says -- \`\`I remember correcting him about this Brah + manas etymology of Brahman only. But still he seems to have repeated the error in this book too." This only means that there is a sort of \`\`calegaa" attitude. I am not only puzzled by this, but also seriously concerned about this as it is in Mr. Pattanaik -- the one who is expected to be all the more responsible, so that people are not mislead.

Making \`ludicrous' statements is also not uncommon. But authoring a book which is replete with such statements and that too by individuals who are \`widely' read and well known creates a much greater damage. This is what I guess has made the reviewer take off significant amount of his time to thoroughly analyze and come up with such a strongly worded review. I don't think he has shown any generosity, and that's what made the undersigned too use such strong remarks.

There is absolutely no pleasure in demeaning any individual or his work. Thought I should clarify my thought on this issue, before I retire from this loop.

Thanks much, and  

Best regards,

-ram.  





> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().



