+++
title = "004 Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)	2015-10-06, 09:03:20 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/HQgfcs4s5UM)]]



Namaste



1. Thanks Siva Senani for the reference from Tantravartika of Kumarila ( 7^(th) century AD - ?). And the notes on language classification, carrying reference to the word ‘Mleccha ,Dramida’ et al. Can we go a little more back in time and get more references on this issue, as debated in relation to ‘ meemaamsaa sutras’ of Jaimini by earlier commentators than Kumarila?



The reasons for asking this is the following. We still have with us many important works which are available to us in a structurally intact and technically accurate way ( at least so believed) on the subject of ‘ Bharateeya languages classification in pre-Christian era’ , way before the post colonial linguistics overshadowed the pedagogy of Samskrutham- Prakrutham –Dramidam ( Tamils) – Apabhramshas and Mleccha languages.
These references are indicated in the disciplines of Artha Shastra , Kama Sutra, texts and specific language grammars, many of which are most likely locked in the manuscripts unpublished.





2. Modern linguists and indologists use a different model of analysis
in this study which seems to further their preferred perspectives, even if it means taking a significant exit from the language of the given text. One such tangential analysis can be seen at the url: <http://www.modernrationalist.com/2011/january/page04.html> - which deals with POST COLONIAL DRAVIDIAN STUDIES IN THE CONTEXT OF CONTEMPORARY SOCIAL DISCOURSE - by - PROF.K.S.CHALAM.



Why is this analysis bringing forth a different and discordant note ? If one goes sufficiently deep in to this ‘ language black-hole’, one can see that modern indologists and linguists are using an alien language classification pattern and set of tools to study the ‘ classical languages of India’. There are a plethora of writings which make ‘ Time- jumps’ and ‘ uncalled for language –osmosis in the name of linguistic changes ’ in word analysis, which is the characteristic signature tune of ‘ post colonial Dravidian linguistics’. The credit for tracing the existence of which is generally attributed to the colonial administrators and missionaries like William Jones (1786), Caldwell, Burrow and Emeneau, Campbell and Ellis .





3. ‘Samskrutham grammarians /linguists classification of languages
starts with the ‘Daivee –Maanushee Vak’ paradigm; Daivee Vak stays sacred as ‘Chandas’. Maanushee vak branches out to develop the
Bhashaa – Prakrtuahm – Apabhramsha –Dramida – Mleccha varieties.





4. Whichever way one goes, the anchor of Panini-Patanjali model of
four fold language classification, as below can be seen transparently.



‘Samskrutham –Prakrutham – Dramida Siddham- Mleccha’ is the primary frame. All four varieties of languages have their co-existence, continuing existence, consistent interactivity of give and take on vocabulary, mixed use in society and literature. Samskruth linguistics and users have recognized this model, implicitly. It may be difficult to find explicit statements to support this. The operational areas of these four language classes are also clear.



2a) Samskrutham has two transparent compartments: Visioned
Transcendent word (Chandas based on Yoga-Darshana) and True word Truthfully processed Rule based derivative from Vyakarana (Bhashaa), 



2b) Prakrutham - Words which are derived and root linked to source of Bhashaa aspect of Samskrutham ( and NOT to Chandas) yet deviant from Samskrutha Vyakarana rules to accommodate a practical usage and convenience. Different conveniences in distant lands leads to different flavors of Prakruts. Apabhramsha group of languages also known as regional (desi) come in between Prakrtuham and Mleccha.



2c) Dramida Siddham – Encrypted technical linguistics for use in Siddha traditions , a technical language standard, linked to Samskrutham and yet separate by its unique rule base and application. Modern schools identify this language branching as Tamils of multiple layers going back to pre-Christian era.



2d) Mleccha - Distorted beyond any chance for recovery and connectivity to Samskrutham or Prakrutham. 



5. This discussion should also connect with the writings related to Pancha Gauda /Pancha Dramida and definition of boundaries of Aryavarta.
By and large there are many unconnected dots and grey areas in these areas. For more on Pancha dramida /Pancha gowda, post 10^(th) century AD classification see A History of Ancient and Early Medieval India: From the Stone Age to the 12th Century - Upinder Singh -

Pearson Education India, 2008 - India - 677 pages. Google book available at url:



<https://books.google.com/books?id=GW5Gx0HSXKUC&pg=PA575&lpg=PA575&dq=pancha+dravida+desha&source=bl&ots=QgOaDlKZAe&sig=NdfXw5DZdyuD33vJg0m00V-KkhU&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0CCwQ6AEwAmoVChMI3vijwuysyAIVyh8eCh3MnAAX#v=onepage&q=pancha%20dravida%20desha&f=false>





About: This book is a comprehensive introductory work for scholars and students of ancient and early medieval Indian history, this books provides the most exhaustive overview of the subject. Dividing the vast historical expanse from the stone age to the 12th century into broad chronological units, it constructs profiles of various geographical regions of the subcontinent, weaving together and analyzing an unparalleled range of literary and archaeological evidence. Dealing with prehistory and proto-history of the subcontinent in considerable detail, the narrative of the historical period breaks away from conventional text-based history writing. Providing a window into the world primary sources, it incorporates a large volume of archaeological data, along with literary, epigraphic, and numismatic evidence. Revealing the ways in which our past is constructed, it explains fundamental concepts, and illuminates contemporary debates, discoveries, and research. Situating prevailing historical debates in their contexts, Ancient and Early Medieval India presents balanced assessments, encouraging readers to independently evaluate theories, evidence, and arguments. Beautifully illustrated with over four hundred photographs, maps, and figures, Ancient and Early Medieval India helps visualize and understand the extraordinarily rich and varied remains of the ancient past of Indian subcontinent. It offers a scholarly and nuanced, yet lucid, account of India's early past, and will surely transform the discovery of this past into an exciting experience.



I look forward for more specific and enlightening details on this matter which is of vital importance to Sanskrit language studies.



Regards

BVK Sastry



--  

निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  



