+++
title = "011 Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (G-Mail-pop)	2015-10-08, 09:13:43 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/HQgfcs4s5UM)]]



Namaste



Prof. Deshpande, you have provided a very illuminating paper on this topic. Thank you very much for sharing this paper. The points raised in your paper open up more fronts of deliberation for this thread of
discussion.



According to traditional schools, there are strong views and fierce
debate raging on ‘ Who is qualified to study Vedas’, the societal category high end extreme are ‘Brahmana’s’ and low end extreme are ‘Shudra/Chanadala/Mleccha’ . This brings forth the first and foremost classification of languages in Sanskrit literature by its application, as language of Vedic ritual (Chandas) and beyond (Bhashaa).

It is a historic fact that the access and usage of Vedic Sanskrit (Chandas) was of different orders amongst these communities; and even amongst the Varna- teams , for the Brahman-Kshatriya-Vaishyas.



The current debate on the spectrum of languages discussed in this thread - ‘ classification of languages in Sanskrit literature’ covers the languages used by the above wide spectrum of society from Brahmans to Mlecchas and applications of these languages. The references mentioned throughout the discussions till now fall in widely separated time segments and application domains as Ritual, Community narrative(itihasa), Sutra, Shastra, Kavya of different periods. Example: 



\<Vedas/ Upanishads .. prior to 7000 BCE? \> .. \<Mahabharata \< quoted text authenticity uncertain , and yet pushed back to the time period 3000 BCE> … \< Jaimini’s Meemaamsaa Sutras .. Prior to 700 BCE>..
\<Panini’-Patanjali s view - 700 to 300 BCE > ….. \< Kumarila Bhatta’s view 700 AD> \<Bharatas Natya Sahstra .. 200 BCE ? \> 



Mixing up of references separated in time by such vast span of time and specificity of applications in explaining the raised issue is a hermeneutic error.



Also it may be interesting to explore the views expressed in Vedanta texts regarding the community languages of the Shudras ( as in apa-shudra adhiakrana of brahma sutra 3^(rd) chapter) and Nishada -Sthapati (Nishada-sthapati nyaya of meemaamsaa) . The original sutra references goes back to a hoary past in pre-Christian era; and the interpretation of these words seem to have undergone a sea of meaning changes over a period of time.



I believe that tracing the footprints of these changes is important to understand the approach of ‘ Die-Hard’ Sanskritists classification of Indian language spectrum and helps to define the oft asked question: What is Sanskrit? And Why should it be treated any different from any other social usage language of several world civilizations and societies?? In short the very premise, so dear to Die-Hard Sanskritists , namely classification of Vak as Apaursheya – Daivee –Maanushee ::
The paradigm of Transcendental Natural ( Nitya) – God and Divine (Deva) and Human societal (Maanushee) – language classification paradigm is
being challenged.





Can you please help us with your illuminating thoughts on this issue
please.



Thanks in advance.

Regards

BVK Sastry



