+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2010-09-14, 04:40:15 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/DVlEnp3WgKs)]]



The University of Chicago, Divinity School  
Professor of the Social Scientific Study of Religion  
Institution Type:College / University  
Location: Illinois, United States  
Position: Full Professor  
  
  
TheUniversity of Chicago Divinity Schoolseeks to make an appointment in the Social Scientific Study of Religion. Rank and salary are open. The School seeks a scholar with superior research skills and a promising agenda for future work in anthropology orsociology of religion. Candidates must combine theoretical sophistication with deep knowledge of one or morereligious communitiesor traditions. Ability to contribute to a wider conversation about the academic study of religion is essential.  
  
The Divinity School is thegraduate professional schoolfor the study of religion at theUniversity of Chicago, a private research university. Faculty in the School teach Ph.D. students in 10 different areas of study, and masters level students in M.A. and M.Div. programs, offering courses at the introductory, intermediate, and advanced levels. Many faculty hold associate appointments in other departments and schools of the University; such associations are encouraged. A normal teaching load is 4 courses per year on a quarter system; in most cases that leaves one quarter open for research in residence (in addition to summers free for scholarship).  
  
Applications will be accepted until the position is filled; review of candidates will commenceon October 15, 2010.  
  
Apply online at:[http://tinyurl.com/24mwm79](http://tinyurl.com/24mwm79)  
  
  
  
The University of Chicago is an Affirmative Action /Equal Opportunity Employer.  
  
  
Contact: Dean Margaret M. Mitchell, The University of Chicago Divinity School,1025 East 58th Street, Chicago, IL 60637.[mm...@uchicago.edu]()  
  
Website:<http://tinyurl.com/24mwm79>  
Primary Category: Religious Studies and Theology  
  
Secondary Categories:Anthropology  
  
Posting Date: 09/13/2010  
Closing Date12/31/2011

