+++
title = "013 pat...@iitk.ac.in"

+++
[[pat...@iitk.ac.in	2016-03-09, 19:09:33 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/CVD2FGs4De4)]]



I agree with Professor Venkatesh Murthy. Burning of books or pages of  
books would take us nowhere.  
  
Incidentally, all societies, not just any particular one, in the past have  
been unfair to women, some to a greater, some to a lesser degree perhaps.  
  
I too have not come across any reference to female foeticide (or killing  
of girl child after birth) in at least the puranic literature.  
  
Anyway, in the spirit of Professor Murthy, I too think that we must  
participate actively in bringing about a change.  
  
Best regards,  
B.N.Patnaik  

  
  
\> Namaste  
\> It is well known Hindu society has oppressed women and even today female  
babies are aborted. The sex ratio is North Indian states is very bad  
because of this many eligible males are not even getting girls to marry.  
It  
\> is not a secret today females in India are not respected and even female  
babies are killed. There are so many problems for parents of girls like  
dowry and NRI husbands leaving the wives in India and absconding in  
foreign  
\> countries.  
\> But the solution to this is not to burn Manu Smrti. If ABVP is angry  
about  
\> female inequality they have to attack the bad practices of treating  
women  
\> as inequal. Manu Smrti is not connected to this inequality. Conditions  
in  
\> ancient India were not like today. We will not find Manu Smrti  
\> saying female babies must be aborted. This female baby abortion is  
modern  
\> invention. Is it not?  
\> On Wednesday, March 9, 2016 at 4:54:59 PM UTC+5:30, ks.kannan.2000  
wrote:  
\>\> It is only pretended that almost all Hindus are swearing by, and strictly  

\>\> adhering to, the injunctions of \*Manusmrti\*, whereas the reality is  



\>\>\>\>\> ------------------------------  
\>\>\>\>\> \*From:\* V Subrahmanian \<[v.subra...@gmail.com]() \<javascript:>\>  
\>\>\>\>\> \*To:\* BHARATIYA VIDVAT \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() \<javascript:>\>  
\*Sent:\* Wednesday, 9 March 2016 11:07 AM  
\>\>\>\>\> \*Subject:\* {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} ABVP burns Manusmriti copies in JNU  

<http://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/abvp-burns-manusmriti-copies-in-jnu/article8328792.ece#.Vt-1mkr7VRY.gmail>  
The purpose of posting this news item in BVP is with a view to find  
out  
\>\>\>\>\> if modern scholars of Sanskrit have a stand on these issues. Not  
only  
\>\>\>\>\> the  
\>\>\>\>\> Manusmriti but also the Mahabharatha has similar verses with other  
popular  
\>\>\>\>\> scriptural texts not being an exception.  
\>\>\>\>\> regards  
\>\>\>\>\> subrahmanian.v  
\>\>\>\>\> --  
\>\>\>\>\> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google  
Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group. To unsubscribe from this group  
and stop receiving emails from it, send  

\>\>\>\>\> an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]() \<javascript:>.  

\>\>\>\>\> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  

\<javascript:>.  

\>\>\>\>\> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.  
\>\>\>\>\> --  
\>\>\>\>\> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google  
Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group. To unsubscribe from this group  
and stop receiving emails from it, send  

\>\>\>\>\> an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]() \<javascript:>.  

\>\>\>\>\> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  

\<javascript:>.  

\>\>\>\>\> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.  
\>\>\>\> --  
\>\>\>\> Nagaraj Paturi  
\>\>\>\> Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA.  
\>\>\>\> Former Senior Professor of Cultural Studies  
\>\>\>\> FLAME School of Communication and FLAME School of Liberal Education,  
(Pune, Maharashtra, INDIA )  
\>\>\> --  
\>\>\> Nagaraj Paturi  
\>\>\> Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA.  
\>\>\> Former Senior Professor of Cultural Studies  
\>\>\> FLAME School of Communication and FLAME School of Liberal Education,  
(Pune, Maharashtra, INDIA )  
\>\>\> --  
\>\>\> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups  
\>\>\> "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group. To unsubscribe from this group and stop  
receiving emails from it, send an  

\>\>\> email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]() \<javascript:>.  

\>\>\> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  

\<javascript:>.  

\>\>\> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.  
\>\> --  
\>\> Dr. K.S.Kannan  
\>\> Professor,  
\>\> Centre for Ancient History and Culture,  
\>\> Jain University  
\>\> 319, 17th Cross, 25th Main,  
\>\> 6th Phase, J P Nagar, Bangalore - 560 078  
\>\> (Ex-Director, Karnataka Samskrit University)  

\> --  
\> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google  
Groups  
\> "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group. To unsubscribe from this group and stop  
receiving emails from it, send  
an  
\> email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
\> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com](). For  
more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.  
  
  

Retired Professor of English and Linguistics  
Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur  
  
Alternative Email: [bn.pa...@gmail.com]()  
  
Blog: <http://saralamahabharat.blogspot.com>  
<http://linktopatnaik.blogspot.com>  
Website: <http://bnpatnaik.wordpress.com>  
  
  
  

