+++
title = "000 R. Narayana iyengar"

+++
[[R. Narayana iyengar	2011-11-04, 11:53:15 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/-LzpOde03-k)]]



Dear Scholars,

Discussion on the above topic is proceeding in another thread from the  
traditional perspective. In a previous post S'ri VK Ghanapaat.hi had  
pointed out that Vikr.ti is for protection of the Vedas. IMHO this is  
indeed true and correct. But how this happened is an interesting  
question. Prof.RL Kashyap has been able to demonstrate that the  
concept is based on the modern Error Correcting Codes well researched  
by Communication Engineers. Some of you may know that RLK is  
Prof.Emeritus of ECE at the Purdue University and also Founder of  
SAKSVIC, Bangalore which has brought out new editions of Vedic texts  
with translation and notes. I am attaching an article titled  
Mathematics the second part of which contains the work of Prof.RL  
Kashyap. Vikr.ti is a mathematical artifice or trick invented to  
protect the AnupUrvI in the oral tramsmission over centuries! It is  
really amazing!

There is another question related to RV structure; the distinction  
between Man.d.ala and As.t.aka. I have heard that As.t.aka is used for  
oral learning whereas the basic textual division is as per family  
books. Saayan.a Bhaas.ya and the Mysore Palace RV edition does not  
throw more light on the As.t.aka format. I am eager to know more about  
the As.t.aka division since this has some interesting properties, like  
it could have been used for measuring time in terms of "Gurvaks.aras".  
I have heard that in certain rituals RV is recited completely in one  
full day (that is sun rise to sun rise or sun set to sun set). Is  
there any legend or even a folk story in any part of India that  
Vedaadhyayana can be used for measuring time?  
As.t.akas are organized into 'Varga' a word which in later mathematics  
acquired the meaning of square-of-a-number. In fact the 'vargas' in  
the 'as.t.aka' can be broken into sum of 'squares' of a few basic  
numbers. I wonder whether this is deliberate or just due to chance.

RN Iyengar  

