+++
title = "000 Dr. P. Ramanujan"

+++
[[Dr. P. Ramanujan	2016-07-12, 18:16:18 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/KU6mVUozJfQ)]]



नमो विद्वद्भ्यः



I attended a session of the subject conference as chair on 6th last week at Chennai and wish to mention the following:



My impression is that such efforts are really worthwhile, seeing the amount of serious work put in enthusiastically by

so many well-wishers of Sanatana Dharma, in a very objective and scholarly manner.



As self-strengtheneing activity, these are what we need to undertake as there is a general fall in the competence

level among swadeshi efforts particularly in the recent few decades. सस्यसंरक्षणार्थं कण्टकशाखावरणकरणवत् - (आप.ध.सू)



Interactions were also very pertinent, productive and to the point, gladdening the believers in ancient Indian intellectual eminence.



More such meetings and continuous efforts would help re-invent our glorious heritage by the ensuing generations.



There is also a deficit of attention/association from Sanskritists as compared to other professionals/researchers,

which is a cause for concern. All does not seem to be well with academic researcher community's perception of such events.

People surely are expecting more and of superior quality of engagement .(तातस्य कूपोऽयमिति ब्रुवाणः ... )



We owe it to our ancestors to be able to deserve our great lineage. (ऋषि-ऋण-अपाकरणम्)



रामानुजः



  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
\[ C-DAC is on Social-Media too. Kindly follow us at:  
Facebook: <https://www.facebook.com/CDACINDIA> & Twitter: @cdacindia \]  
  
This e-mail is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may  
contain confidential and privileged information. If you are not the  
intended recipient, please contact the sender by reply e-mail and destroy  
all copies and the original message. Any unauthorized review, use,  
disclosure, dissemination, forwarding, printing or copying of this email  
is strictly prohibited and appropriate legal action will be taken.  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

