+++
title = "000 Dr.BVK Sastry (Gmail)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (Gmail)	2013-02-07, 05:59:16 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/Ov6E5txzFZY)]]



Namaste



Please help me to understand the ‘ imposed difficulties’ in the form of :



1. Where is the stipulation of condition-criticality related to 300 pages of manuscript ? \< Though there are manuscripts of 50 to 100 pages, the number of manuscripts above 300 pages are next to nil \>



2. Why is this considered a ‘ filtering condition’ ?



3. How does a Ph.D study be reflective of application of mind, if all the exercise is \< Transforming the text from a manuscript> to a \< Keyed in Text in a electronic page readable mode / transliteration modality ? \> How does this add value ?



4. By the way, how many gurukul students would be willing to work on a
manuscript less than 300 pages, but willing to apply the mind and bring out useful application embedded in such mini-diamonds of tradition ? For an education award from USA ? For even after editing a \< full 300 page manuscript and getting a Doctoral award> , the job prospect and bright economic future does not seem to be high !!! One more book on shelf is not what we are looking for ; and certainly not ‘ what they did in a historic period, which seems to be of no useful relevance to the social dynamics ! This applies even to the most discussed ashwamedha topic, which in many practical performances are no more than \< so was it done ! said to be done ! \>.



Regards



BVK Sastry



**From:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() \[mailto:[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\]  
**Sent:** Wednesday, February 06, 2013 6:20 PM  
**To:** Digest Recipients  
**Subject:** {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Digest for [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() - 15 Messages in 7 Topics



** Today's Topic Summary**

Group: [http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat/topics](http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat/topics)

§ [संस्कृत कोशग्रन्थानाम् अध्ययनम्](#m_-4008865405297458614_group_thread_0) \[2 Updates\]

[संस्कृत कोशग्रन्थानाम् अध्ययनम्](http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat/t/f2257a24c6620dec)

**"Dr. Tirumala Kulakarni" \<[tkula...@gmail.com]()\>** Feb 06 02:53PM +0530   
  
Dears  
  
\> why do the Indian students who are near to manuscript materials not devote \> some significant attention to the publication of previously unpublished \> texts to earn their degree?  
  
As per my experience students from Gurukula System prefer editing
unpublished work for their Ph.D. degree. The problems faced are -  
  
1. Lack of manuscript which are suitable for Ph.D. work. Though there are manuscripts of 50 to 100 pages, the number of manuscripts above 300 pages are next to nil.  
  
2. The recently revised rules say that students should take manuscripts of that subject in which they have MA.  
  
Combination of these two is causing decrease of number of editing the unpublished works.  
  
Re: \`Instead of writing on the same subjects again and again for their Ph.Ds,'  
  
There is a need to create a list of interesting and important titles for each shastras for future Ph.D. students.  
  
TK 

**"Dr. Yadu Moharir" \<[ymoh...@yahoo.com]()\>** Feb 06 09:31AM -0800
  
  
Namaskar Dr Kulkarni:  
  
Thanks for sharing your observations. What concerns is if the student does not have a Masters in Sanskrit then he/she will not be able to do a Ph.D. in Sanskrit.  
  
IMO - Not allowing interdisciplinary pool only results in "In-Breeding" and rigid molding of thoughts.  
  
I recall having seen a Ph.D. Thesis in Marathi where the candidate just published the "Unpublished Works" of his Guru, and that too without any commentary or notes, but he still got a Ph.D. degree.  
  
If present day institution heads do not acknowledge this then there will be no hope for any further exploration in any field.  
  
One can never forget that it is the application in real life that always remain of the forefront. I look at it as "Algebra" and "Geometry" are important in their own right, but the real application of these subjects is what makes Engineering more important for the Society.  
  
Best Rgds,  
  
Dr Yadu  
  
\>There is a need to create a list of interesting and important titles for each shastras for future Ph.D. students.  
  
\>TK  
  
\>\>a.a.  
  
--

  
  


