+++
title = "005 Ramasubramanian Sharma"

+++
[[Ramasubramanian Sharma	2011-01-07, 05:24:07 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/v31uWqMy4G8)]]



Dear Friends,

I too completely concur with the views expressed by our respected scholars  
Sri Jangannatha and Sri Ganesh.

By making an outright dismissal of the content of Vedas and the allied  
literature, enough damage has been done by some of the orientalists of the  
past. Perhaps this was primarily done to fulfil their own agenda. Being  
alien to our culture and tradition (not necessarily physically!) this is  
quite understandable and pardonable.

However, it is a bit difficult to stomach the other kind of damage. The so  
called \`enthusiasts', keep making all sorts of tall and absolutely  
baseless claims not realizing that far more greater damage is being done  
by them in doing so. According to them, every theory - those that have  
been already proposed, that are in the making, and the ones that will be  
proposed - can all be traced in the Vedic corpus, and that we only need a  
certain \`divine' vision to \`read' them from the text. To make the point  
clear as it were, I cite an example. A few years back, in a fairly  
respectable gathering, I heard a mathematician (retired from a reputed  
institute) making a statement that we have reference to \`string theory'  
(that which physicists are currently dabbling with) in Bhagavad Gita. I  
was shocked to hear this and before I could recover the speaker quoted the  
verse. What this gentleman was referring to was the statement -- \`mayi  
sarvamidam protam suutre manigana iva'. \[Idea is: \`sutra' refers to  
string; so make a link!\]

Anyway, kudos to both the scholars for clearly putting forth in this forum  
(in Sanskrit as well as in English) that both these views are indeed  
damnable and can at most be counterproductive.

Thanks much, and  
Best regards,  
-Ram.

î—“

