+++
title = "013 VKG"

+++
[[VKG	2011-01-08, 07:11:17 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/v31uWqMy4G8)]]



Pranaam!

This debate of defining "Vedic Sciece" is too irresistible, for me to  
join.

If we conclude the science is the theory of knowledge, then we can  
safely conclude that Veda itself is a Science.

However, the term science in its modern context, differs in our  
perceptions.

We would like to mention that, most of the so-called experiments,  
thesis referred in the quoted Vedic Texts is based on sheer  
observations (Spread over millenia) and continous refinement of  
thought process, based on the observations/ intellectual observations.  
Often this results in the intuitive verses/ revelations etc.  
(Nomenclature is not important).

(The Vedic Text itself is a complex word, for one to grasp. Are we  
talking about a stanza or two; Samhita, Braahma or Upanishat or  
lateral entries qualifying as vedic texts.)

Since the modern science has developed a lot in its mechanisms, it is  
highly doubtful, whether we (vedic researchers) would be able to  
contribute (Either by deflection, disruption, alternation).

However, the theoritical concepts referred in the texts and the  
inspiration there of could be of greater value.

In addition, the concepts of individual disciple, societal discipline  
and collective/ individual welfare; referred as Social Sciences are  
the forte of Vedic Literature. These should be given highest priority  
and the messages should be spread to suit the contemporary context.

Theory of knowledge, in its full spectrum, available in Vyakarana,  
Meemamsa, tarka Sastras should be certainly given its due importance  
and modern educated persons shall be appraised about the nuances.

Finally, I conclude that the deriving satisfaction from the fact of  
correlation is temporary and sentimental. Whereas the immediate or  
long term benefits, arising out of a knowledge alone could influence  
the society and shape up its thinking/ approach towards a culture/  
pattern of knowledge.

With due respects to all the scholars, I conclude my submission.  
VKG



\> \>\> 2011/1/6 iragavarapu narasimhacharya \<[insacha...@gmail.com]()\>



\> \>\>\> स्ती2011/1/6 Jagannatha s \<[jgran...@gmail.com]()\>:



