+++
title = "025 VKG"

+++
[[VKG	2011-01-11, 15:34:00 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/v31uWqMy4G8)]]



Pranaam  
  
Vedic Science has been a term of debate among scholars. Since this is  
Parishad, in various sciences room for every opinion should be given,  
without insulting any initiative of any individual and organisation.  
  
Now, the debate shrinks to the application of Scientific principles,  
in India across ages. Now, what ever we see in heritage exhibitions,  
is a depiction of lateral researches/ development by Proponents and  
staunch believers of Vedic Philosophy.  
  
The core principles of enlisted in Vedic Texts inspired several  
individuals/ thinkers on various subjects. The Vedas continue to  
inspire for ages to come.  
  
Many times, I (Myself) get inspired to think the significance of the  
meaning of Mantras/ Braahmana Sentences. (My current understanding and  
exposure to various contemporary concepts has the major share of  
influence in this inspiration).  
  
For an example - a Rik of Goddess Saraswati Saraswatyabhi No neshi...  
(Both in Yajur and Rig veda); has inspired me to think about the  
availability of Incendiary Materials Hydro carbon Liquids in the  
Saraswati Basin. (This was possible for me to guess this way, by  
learning that Barmer district of Rajasthan, said to be the erstwhile  
basin of River Saraswati has been spotted with Gas/Petroleum reserves  
by Cairns Company).  
But the essence of the message is that - Let us not got to War Like  
situations, in this regard. (This message was relevant at the time of  
Iraq War).  
  
It is open for us to name at Vedic Science or otherwise. But, if  
scientists are exposed to such ideas and principles, there could be  
room for improvement of life for the society.  
  
Hence, dialogue between distinguished persons from both streams of  
knowledge will be required. Inspiration for serious researches, cannot  
be denied.  
  
Conferences in this respect would serve the purpose, if they help the  
interaction.  
  
Principles for Social Sciences, Fundamental Physics and Meta Physics  
are the forte of Vedic Texts. Rest of the interpretations (in  
ancillary texts) are inspired by these scriptures.  
Pranam.

