+++
title = "000 rniyengar"

+++
[[rniyengar	2012-01-09, 21:29:21 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/uQzoZzN5WtU)]]



Dear Scholars, Namaskaar!  
  
This is of course a perennial topic for discussion. The issue may be  
looked at from several angles all of which may not converge. However,  
if the dates and numbers become internally consistent from a  
particular hypothesis or starting point, one may expect a key to be at  
hand for unraveling the PuraaNic dating system. If such an analysis  
were to be possible one may not be far away from dating the Vedic  
corpus on a scientific (i.e.logical) basis. To my surprise (pardon my  
ignorance) I find that one of our great scientists PC Mhalanobis  
(founder of ISI, Calcutta) published a paper in Sankhyaa in 1936. This  
was actually a detailed review of the Bengali book “PuraaNa praves’a”  
by G.Bose. The paper is most interesting. PCM upholds the statistical  
validity of the hypothesis of Bose who takes the basic unit ‘yuga’ to  
be 5 years as per the vedanga jyotisha. Has any one read the original  
book? Is it available in English translation?  
Quite befittingly, Suniti Kumar Chaterji, the famous historian wrote a  
note on the book and the analysis of Mahalanobis, also published in  
Sankhyaa. Both call for verifying the relation between our ancient  
texts and IVC findings.  
  
\[They were not yet aware of Dholavira,Lothal etc. In 1935 Mohenjodaro  
and harappa were Indian!\]  
  
Here I copy the conclusion of Mahalanobis followed by that of  
Chaterji:  
  
\[Mahalanobis: Sankhyaa Vol. 2, No. 3 (1936), pp. 309-320\]  
“One point is worth stressing. It must not be imagined that there are  
no contradictions or inconsistencies in the purãna ; but in many cases  
such inconsistencies and exaggerations are more apparent than real and  
can be explained easily. The inner core of historical narrative is  
often overlaid with symbolical and mythological decorations some of  
which were deliberately introduced to make the narrative interesting  
and some of which were unintentional accretions. The main argument of  
the new theory is two-fold. One which is purely numerical and  
statistical in character is concerned with the reconstruction of the  
different eras. The other consists of certain reasonable rules of  
interpretation of a psychological and symbolic nature. The internal  
consistency of the chronological portion is such as to exclude beyond  
reasonable doubt the possibility of chance coincidence. The  
psychological and symbolic portion naturally is more open to  
criticism. But here also the way in which the different portions fit  
together, especially if we keep the three-layer (proto-, meso-, and  
nèopurãnic) character of the material in view, is such as to give them  
considerable plausibility. Finally the obvious contradictions,  
inconsistencies and confusion of names are all features which one  
would expect in an authentic and genuine tradition. Such  
inconsistencies in fact would be difficult to explain on the theory of  
deliberate forgery. The great importance and the far-reaching effect  
of the new theory will be easily realised from the above summary. With  
the recent discovery of a highly developed civilisation in the Indus  
valley going back to the fifth or sixth millenium B.C., it cannot be  
said that the chronicle of ancient India as given in the purãna is  
intrinsically improbable. It is true that external evidence is as yet  
almost entirely lacking, but the internal evidence is so consistent  
that it would be clearly unscientific to dismiss the new theory  
without giving it a most searching examination. If the present theory  
is sustained, it will completely revolutionize current ideas regarding  
the chronology of ancient India. It is to be hoped that Dr. Bose will  
soon publish an English version of his theory, and thus make it  
available to scientific workers outside Bengal and India”. (21  
December, 1935).  
  
\[SK Chatterji The Indian Journal of Statistics (1933-1960), Vol. 2,  
No. 3 (1936), pp. 321-326\]  
  
“Here we have a definite challenge, which has to be taken in its true  
implication ; namely that whatever be the value of the Purãna tales  
about kings and sages - whether they are myth or legend or sober  
history - there is a systematic chronology of a number of Ancient  
Indian dynasties and their individual kings which conies from the  
beginning of the 6th millennium B.C. right down to historical times.  
This chronology can be proved to be correct at its lower limit when we  
have synchronisms with the Greeks and other foreigners of known date.  
The chronology moreover occurs in a number of time counts or eras  
which shows absolute consistency and agreement with each other. This  
is what Dr. Bose claims to have found out; and Professor Mahalanobis  
as a Statistician corroborates his findings. We have to take serious  
note of that……………. Shall we ever discover pre- Aryan records in the  
form of inscriptions in the Mohen-jo- Daro or similar script to bear  
out the Purãnic dynasties and dynastic lists, in their original pre-  
Sanskritic forms? Shall we discover from such records the story of the  
advent of the Aryans into India and their doings among the civilised  
peoples of the country who preceded them and and who were so  
profoundly modified by them?”  
  
Best...  
RN Iyengar

