+++
title = "001 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2012-01-10, 12:48:24 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/uQzoZzN5WtU)]]



Dear scholars,



It is unfortunate that all our historians have been obsessed with the chronology propounded by Max Muller; as stated by mahaamahim P.V.Kane, in his History of Dharmashastra. And Science does not accept it. I have deat with in detail in my unpublished book 'The Science of Hinduism'.

Einstein rejected this saying that the universe is at least 19 billions years old. In 1073 another Nobel laureate Feynmann discovered that the creation of earth is not a singularity and a cyclic repetition. Even Stephen Hawking concurs with Feynmann that the Universe, as we say, is anaadi and ananta.



During the last two years many discoveries have been announced. 1. Discovery of a human skull, 5 lakh year old, in turkey of a man who died of tuberculosis. 2. Discovery of forms of life more than 4.9 million years old. 3. Discovery of life more than 39.7 years or so old. 4. Very recent discovery of the remains of a man-erectus in Africa, 20 million years old. These are the evidences that I have scanned from our newspapers. Of course all of them are scooped from scince journals like Nature.



So, the recent science discoveries are converging on Manusmrithi speaks of time. Manu was a great scientist, as all our great Rishis upto Shankaracharya were. Manu was also a Mathematician and Cosmologist, who expounded the Vedas. Bhagavadgita corroborates with the Vedas and Manusmrithi. With all these glaring scientific evidences what a great pity that our scholars are still sticking to the Biblical timeframe of Max Muller!



One scholar asked a question: what is the definition of science. Till 19th century, the West did not speak of science, though Vedas spoke of Vijnaanam. Newton was described as the greatest philosopher of his times.It is remarkable that it was only after the publication of Valmiki Ramayana, followed by thetranslationof Vedas that the distinction between philosophyand science was made, projecting the one as eastern and the other as Western. Science was defined as the precision of Knowledge. Even there the hint was that the West was precise and the East was imprecise. I do not blame the Westerners.



Was it not our own friend whorubbished the idea of science in Vedas in these columns and eulogised Kepler for discovering that theearths orbit was an ellipse?The great scholar does not know what an egg is!Becauseour scriptures called the universe Brahmaanda (egg-shaped, ellipsoid).



vijnaanam is vichikitsaka jnaanam, analytical knowledge. Shankara described it as VibhagashaH jnaanam. When I explained with the example of Sir Isaac Newton, who theannals of History trumpet that a falling apple prompted him and led him to the discovery of Gravity; so that one may draw a lesson from the example; which made him think in the tradition of our ancient Rishis, what, why, how, when and where of; of all their observations, which is root of all precise knowledge; scholars who do not know why a river dries up and adduce funny theories patently wrong, just because some foreigners mentioned so - saahebavakyameva theshaam pramaanam! - called me a scietifically and historically illiterate! I did admit that. No use arguing with such great scholars.



Now the question is, in an Euclidian way, what is the hypothesis, what is the data, and what is to prove. If we first decide about these, then we can find out the proof. Else, it will be empty talk. The

I-serveheld a conference in Delhi, claiming to have fixed theDOB of Rama as 11-January-7114B.P. (Before present), with the precision of Planetarium software, and trumpeted Q.E.D.

I asked what were the parameters of the software. The author of the paper conceded that the cyclicity of the astronomical events was taken as 23500 years. Then I asked a pointed question - 'All that your findings amount to say that Rama was born 7114 +\[ x \* 23500\]; where the value of x can be anything from 0 to infinity. Is it not?' All that he could do was to simply nod.



Now, on the basis of Manusmrithi, and the Bhagavadgita chapter eight, I have located and calculated the distances to Brahmaloka, at the centre of the Universe, to heave and to pitruloka.

One scholar asked me "do you believe that the heaven exists, as the puranas say?" My reply wa "well, the scriptures speak of the earth and the various celestial bodies and heaven and Brahmaloka. And we know that the earth exists and the various celestial bodies, the planets and the stars still exist as expounded in our scriptures. Then I have not found any evidence to disbelieve the existence of heaven. And scientifically, the universe cannot exist without a brahmaloka, at the centre of the universe, as exposited in the Vedas."



I invited the doubting thomases for a public debate on the Issue. But the scholars are shying away.

I recall an English adage 'Ignorance is bliss where it is folly to be wise.'



Only I am glad that at least there were some thinkers like Mahalanobis who had the faith in the wisdom of their ancestors; and there are some like Sri R.N.Iyengar, who think of such persons.

But Macauley has emaciated our nation almost.



s.r.krishna murthy



  
  


2012/1/9 rniyengar \<[narayana...@gmail.com]()\>  



>   
> --  
> अथ चेत्त्वमिमं धर्म्यं संग्रामं न करिष्यसि।  
> ततः स्वधर्मं कीर्तिं च हित्वा पापमवाप्स्यसि।।  
> तस्मादुत्तिष्ठ कौन्तेय युद्धाय कृतनिश्चयः।  
> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  

  

