+++
title = "001 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2011-05-16, 20:56:23 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/P7Nvh68HUJc)]]



Namaste:  
  

After reading the post I could not resist and decided to pen my perspective about the issue as seen from the eyes of a Ph.D. scientist who has been on academic advisory committees and who was involved in applied research in the various scientific fields, including Chemistry, Analytical chemistry, Material science, Semiconductors, pharmaceutical drug discovery and nutritional health industry in the US.  

  

My sincere apologies if the post is too long or if someone thinks that is not relevant.  

  

1\. All advanced degrees do not include the "Name of the Subject" per say by itself. I would like to draw attention of scholars to the the term "philosophy" in "Doctor of Philosophy".  

  

2. For any student, who desires to learn the higher all that means is the candidate is seriously interested in learning the mechanism of knowledge in a given field. (compare this with athato brhma jij\~naasaa). The responsibility for learning is for the student and is no different than ancient days when a disciple approached to a guru with humility and expressed such desire (tadviddhi praNipaatena pariprashnena sevayaa \| upadekShyanti te j\~naanaM j\~naaninastattvadarshinaH \|\| giitaa 4-34).  

  

3. In science knowledge is advancing vertically where as often Sanskrit and other "arts" subjects only concentrate on "lateral" advancement. A classic example of lateral research is academic tagging of "Sanskrit with Computer". Even if one tags all the Sanskrit literature that exist on this planet, no computer scientist is ever going to use it to write a computer program in Sanskrit. However, if some can do that then that candidate would certainly deserve a Ph.D., Just a mere compilation and collation of existing is no more than an efficient librarians job and will always remain as a carrier of "chandan bhaara" or a "sthaNu" as expressed by Saayanaacharya.  

  

4. Indian students who come to the West often struggle with that inability to decide on the "Research Project" for their thesis as they constantly look at the their professor and probably spend (loose) more time than the actual research. Indian students have never been taught how to think as more emphasis has always been placed on the memorizing rather than understanding and then applying what has been memorized? This was clearly advocated by sage Manu: - "adnyebhyo granthinaH shreShThaa granthibhyo dhaariNo varaaH \|  
dhaaribhyo dnyaaninaH shreShThaa dnyaanibhyo vyavasaayinaH \|\| manusmR^iti 12.103 \|\|"  

  

 The objective that was explicitly advocated by shAstra may need to be invoked here. Above statement is applicable to all fields of disciplines.  

  

5. What is important to one individual may have absolute no value to the other so just forming a committee is often of little help. The primary guidelines for a good professor in my opinion are need to that individuals ability to become a "director, navigator" and not the principle "Driver / Pilot".

  

6\. What a students needs to learn is the critical process of thinking without compromising the observations which was perceived as evidence.  
  
7. IMO - teacher should not be responsible spoon feeding at each and every step of the learning process, but should have the ability to direct the student so that he/she can pull him out of the rough waters only when needed and play the role a of an individual who rescues.  
  
8. At the end of day, a over objective of the entire exercise that make student capable of standing on his own merit, who can defend his conclusions.  
  
9. Sanskrit is so rich and I there should be no difficulty in selecting a topic. Even a simple question why our sages expressed their views is a specific manner on a given issue often leads to wonderfully useful information only if blind faith (andha shradda) can be taken out of equation.  
  
10. Grammar is the bridge or a boat that is capable of delivering the intended meaning of our ancient text and hence the romance between "spirituality & Sanskrit", which has been explored by various Acharyas.  
  
With best regards to all the esteemed scholars,  
  
Dr. Yadu  
.  

  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**From:** pravesh vyas \<[praves...@gmail.com]()\>  
**To:** भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत् \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
**Sent:** Monday, May 16, 2011 5:53 AM  
**Subject:** {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Poor condition of research in sanskrit  



--  
अथ चेत्त्वमिमं धर्म्यं संग्रामं न करिष्यसि।  
ततः स्वधर्मं कीर्तिं च हित्वा पापमवाप्स्यसि।।  
तस्मादुत्तिष्ठ कौन्तेय युद्धाय कृतनिश्चयः।  
निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
  
  

