+++
title = "002 Krishna kumar"

+++
[[Krishna kumar	2011-05-17, 11:52:39 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/P7Nvh68HUJc)]]



hari omh,  
Sir, its very important to think about this subject, bvparishad is the  
best platform to think about this. but before that you have to think  
the main reason why it is happening after that you can make any rules.  
myself i am representing a group of youngsters. you are thinking about  
the quality of Sanskrit research, but never think how the students  
will survive after there Ph.D. They are trying to complete there Ph.d,  
so they will get a job for there livelihood. Minimum a U.p school job.  
now this is the maximum target of a sanskrit student. you can ask any  
Ph.D students, what they will do after Phd, 95% they will be silent.  
reason is same. In our group itself 13 students we have completed  
M.A, Mphil and Phd and special studies in manuscriptology, Computers,  
NLP and other subjects. We have started our own research foundation,  
reason is not getting a job.  
simple example i can show you what is happening.  
  
if a scholar joining as a lecturer as a teacher @ the age of 25, then  
he will retired after 65. retirement is 60 but they can make extension  
but sufferer new generation. it means more than 40 years there will be  
no post in that college or school.we have to wait another 40 years to  
get a post at that particular place.each year thousands of students  
are coming out, we are not making new job vacancies in Sanskrit then  
how we will survive. we are thinking about problems, we never thinking  
about the practical problems we are facing. request to all, never  
think this is an emotional comment from a person, this a comment from  
a stable group.  
  
sanskrit is so rich, but the things has to come out, for that the  
youngsters has to get a platform. For that there must b a group to  
promote. they have to get a chance. its a cinima dailog, if we get a  
chance then only sachin tendulkar other wise he will equal to all. we  
have to start job oriented programmes, traditional scholars and new  
generation students has to sit together. experience of our great  
scholars and advices has to get young scholars. new mufti  
disciplinary subjects and research centers has to start. for that a  
group committee has to make. They have to make 3 year plan or 5 year  
plan to promote sanskrit. whats the things happening in India is not  
sufficient for Sanskrit studies and research.  
  
when ever the new research oriented movements will not start, students  
will never come forward to study Sanskrit. We can see it in future.  
The numbers of sanskrit students for admission will be less, the  
standard of sanskrit studies will be come down, and as you have  
already mentioned the Poor research condition. its the time to think..  
otherwise new generation will never allow there children to study  
sanskrit because of practical problems they faced.  
  
as a young students if we said any thing wrong, please excuse us. as i  
know bvparishad is the group of respected scholars and teachers. with  
all respect to our teachers and all scholars we have tried to show  
what we are facing.  
  
गुरुर्ब्रह्म गुरुर्विष्णु गुरुर्देवो महेश्वर  
गुरु साक्षात् परं ब्रह्म तस्मै श्री गुरवे नमः।।  
  
  
thanking You  
With regards  



