+++
title = "006 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2011-05-18, 22:24:04 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/P7Nvh68HUJc)]]



Namaste:  
  
This is a loaded question but I will try to share my thoughts on this issue.  
  
Fact:  
a. We all know the importance of grammar.   
b. There are thousands of Sanskrit grammarians who desire to have a productive means of earning.  
  
Could the answer be in the query itself?  
  
  
IMO - We the Indians, seem to ignore the "UTILITY" portion of our scriptures. Where as, Western scholars continue to strive to understand the corresponding utility. In Veda, we have devataa, chhanda, and R^iShi but no one talks about the associated Viniyoga. Sage Shaunaka while talking about this issue in bR^ihaddevataa states:  
aviditvaa R^iShiM chha.ndo devataaM yogameva ca \|  
yo.adhyaapayejjapedvapi paapiyaajjaayate tusaH \|\|  
  
I am convinced that the utility must be the real spirituality of our real vaidka inheritance. In the above quotation, the term "yaogameva" is used and the discussion on "Yaga-Vid" thread may be able to shed some additional light on this as well. Could having forgotten the purpose for veda (viniyoga) may be respponsible for the current state of affairs as everyone keeps talking about "aatman & brhaman" that can never be verified within the possible integral limits of this world !?  
  
All of them seem to have been attached to the vehicle and are are not prepared to get out of their comfort zone and smell the roses. The situation for their predicament was most elegantly expressed through the famous words of Shankaracharya "nai nahi rakshati DukR^i\~n karaNe".  
  
However, this may be the real answer because that is their strength and they need to use it creatively, objectively within the limits of their scholarship.  
  
Example: A friend of mine paid $1000 to a Sanskrit scholar to decipher a portion from Charaka smahitaa. Scholar was happy to get it done. My friend started a company based on this and now he employees over 40 Ph.D's and his company has a gross sales exceeding 60 Million dollars.  
  
Just look at the recent article from The Hindu:

**  
In China, a rediscovery of Sanskrit**  
  
<http://www.hindu.com/2011/05/18/stories/2011051864340600.htm>

  
All this suggests that one need to explore and become creative regardless of the outside appearance and learn to become a "Honey Bee". This best expressed in the words of Saint Dnyaneshvra maharaj.  
  
seva.ntIye arasikAMhI.n\| A.nga pAhatA.n visheSha nAhI.n \| parI saurabhya neleM tihI.n\| bhramarI.n jANije \|\| j\~naaneshavrii 15.595\|\|  
  
Meaning (liberal) - Shevanti, appears to be like any ordinary unattractive flower for an individual who is not a connoisseur.
However, it is the honey bee who knows how to enjoy the real fragrance.  
  
I have come across many grammarians who have no clue of Grimms and Verners laws and the corresponding application to progress the frontiers for their own arena and also then there are those, who take help of Indian scholarship and then skew the meaning to their advantage without even acknowledging the contributions and not even acknowledge in their published materials. Indian scholar from India, just feels good that they got the piece of the pie (dakshiNaa) and remain contented. When confronted they say and console themselves with smile on their face, that Oh, the foreigner may be some day help him get an invitation to visit abroad.  
  
All I am saying here is that one has to make every effort and try to chart one's own destiny, but there is always a probability of 20% failure as stated in giitaa (18-14), however, 80% efforts needs to be one's own individual responsibility.  
  
adhishhThaanaM tathaa kartaa karaNa.n cha pR^ithagvidham.h .  
vividhaashcha pR^ithakcheshhTaa daiva.n chaivaatra pa\~nchamam.h .. 18-14..  
  
Best wishes,  
  
Dr. Yadu  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**From:** pravesh vyas \<[praves...@gmail.com]()\>  

**To:** Dr. Yadu Moharir \<[ymoh...@yahoo.com]()\>  
**Sent:** Tuesday, May 17, 2011 10:41 PM  
**Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Poor condition of research in sanskrit  
  
thank you sir for a beautiful answer. Can you suggest what can  
sanskrit scholars can do for earning money besides teaching. Is there  
any research society which gives money for research?

  
  
On 16 मई, 20:26, "Dr. Yadu Moharir" \<[ymoha...@yahoo.com]()\> wrote:  
\> Namaste:  
\>  
\> After reading the post I could not resist and decided to pen my perspective about the issue as seen from the eyes of a Ph.D. scientist who has been on academic advisory committees and who was involved in applied research in the various scientific fields, including Chemistry, Analytical chemistry, Material science, Semiconductors, pharmaceutical drug discovery and nutritional health industry in the US.  
\>  
\> My sincere apologies if the post is too long or if someone thinks that is not relevant.  
\>  
\> 1. All advanced degrees do not include the "Name of the Subject" per say by itself. I would like to draw attention of scholars to the the term "philosophy" in "Doctor of Philosophy".  
\>  
\> 2. For any student, who desires to learn the higher all that means is the candidate is seriously interested in learning the mechanism of knowledge in a given field. (compare this with athato brhma jij\~naasaa). The responsibility for learning is for the student and is no different than ancient days when a disciple approached to a guru with humility and expressed such desire (tadviddhi  
\> praNipaatena pariprashnena sevayaa \| upadekShyanti te j\~naanaM j\~naaninastattvadarshinaH \|\| giitaa 4-34).  
\>  
\> 3. In science knowledge is advancing vertically where as often Sanskrit and other "arts" subjects only concentrate on "lateral" advancement. A classic example of lateral research is academic tagging of "Sanskrit with Computer". Even if one tags all the Sanskrit literature that exist on this planet, no computer scientist is ever going to use it to write a computer program in Sanskrit. However, if some can do that then that candidate would certainly deserve a Ph.D.,
Just a mere compilation and collation of existing is no more than an efficient librarians job and will always remain as a carrier of "chandan bhaara" or a "sthaNu" as expressed by Saayanaacharya.  
\>  
\> 4. Indian students who come to the West often struggle with that inability to decide on the "Research Project" for their thesis as they constantly look at the their professor and probably spend (loose) more time than the actual research. Indian students have never been taught how to think as more emphasis has always been placed on the memorizing rather than understanding and then applying what has been memorized? This was clearly advocated by sage Manu: - "adnyebhyo granthinaH shreShThaa granthibhyo dhaariNo varaaH \|  
\> dhaaribhyo dnyaaninaH shreShThaa dnyaanibhyo vyavasaayinaH \|\| manusmR^iti 12.103 \|\|"  
\>  
\>  The objective that was explicitly advocated by shAstra may need to be invoked here. Above statement is applicable to all fields of disciplines.  
\>  
\> 5. What is important to one individual may have absolute no value to the other so just forming a committee is often of little help. The primary guidelines for a good professor in my opinion are need to that individuals ability to become a "director, navigator" and not the principle "Driver / Pilot".  
\>  
\> 6. What a students needs to learn is the critical process of thinking without compromising the observations which was perceived as evidence.  
\>  
\> 7. IMO - teacher should not be responsible spoon feeding at each and every step of the learning process, but should have the ability to direct the student so that he/she can pull him out of the rough waters only when needed and play the role a of an individual who rescues.  
\>  
\> 8. At the end of day, a over objective of the entire exercise that make student capable of standing on his own merit, who can defend his conclusions.  
\>  
\> 9. Sanskrit is so rich and I there should be no difficulty in selecting a topic. Even a simple question why our sages expressed their views is a specific manner on a given issue often leads to wonderfully useful information only if blind faith (andha shradda) can be taken out of equation.  
\>  
\> 10. Grammar is the bridge or a boat that is capable of delivering the intended meaning of our ancient text and hence the romance between "spirituality & Sanskrit", which has been explored by various Acharyas.  
\>  
\> With best regards to all the esteemed scholars,  
\>  
\> Dr. Yadu  
\> .  
\>  
\> \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  

\> From: pravesh vyas \<[praveshvya...@gmail.com]()\>



