+++
title = "015 Dr. T. Ganesan"

+++
[[Dr. T. Ganesan	2011-05-21, 22:37:22 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/P7Nvh68HUJc)]]



Sri Jagannath has clearly brought out the importance of including the  
commentaries in the M.A. Sanskrit curriculam. Subscribing fully to his germane  
views I will add the importance of including some portions of the great  
epic--Mahabharata also as well as some passages from some Purana-s. Indeed it is  
the greatest treasure that we have in these unrivalled texts. Even for the  
simple reading of these texts they are worth and I feel, Sanskrit students  
should be introduced to them. Thereby they become exposed to the different  
literary patters--on the one hand the immortal kavya-s of greatest poets and on  
the other, the divinely simple and enriching utterances of our forefathers, the  
great sages.  
In fact some of the western universities do have certain portions from the  
Mahabharata and even prose passages from the Brahmana texts.  
Ganesan

Respected scholars,  
\>  
\> As I observed, Shastric research works coming out from \*Sanskrit  
\> Universities\* are good. Particularly, the research works published by



\> what \*is\* available and not what \*must be\* available. Study of even  
\> Alankaras of pure literature in \*scientific manner\* makes Alankaric  
\> science !  
\> \*  
\> \*  
\> \*Science is not limited to Microbiology and Astrophysics.\*



\>\>\>\> his famous verse.\*Urdhvordhvamaruhya yadarthatattvam dhih pasyati  
\>\>\>\> srantim avedayanti\* etc.



