+++
title = "000 S. Kalyanaraman"

+++
[[S. Kalyanaraman	2011-07-12, 10:24:03 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/ZKvnf7DZWbk)]]



What: 5th ASEAN Linguistics Conference  
When: December 21 - 22, 2011  
Where: Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia  
Submission of abstracts: 15 September 2011  
Notification of Acceptance: 01 October 2011  
Full Papers : 01 November 2011  
Contact:[linguis...@gmail.com]()  
Contact: Rusmadi Baharudin \<[rus...@dbp.gov.my]()\>  
  
Dear Colleagues,  
  
Kindly find below a Call for Papers for the 5th ASEAN Linguistics Conference  
scheduled for December 21-22, 2011 in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.  
Looking forward to your participation.  
  
Kind regards,  
Rusmadi  
CALL FOR PAPERS  
FIFTH ASEAN LINGUISTICS CONFERENCE  
Kuala Lumpur, 21 - 22 Disember 2011  
The Fifth ASEAN Linguistics Conference will take place on 21 to 22 December  
2011 in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. The conference aims to gather linguistic  
academia from the ASEAN region to share their knowledge in their current  
research. The theme of this conference is "A tapestry of ASEAN linguistics:  
research and the enrichment of the corpus of knowledge".  
The organisers, Malaysian Linguistics Association and National University of  
Malaysia, are pleased to announce a call for papers on any of the following  
topics:  
i. Theoretical linguistics  
ii. Applied linguistics  
iii. Corpus linguistics  
iv. Comparative linguistics  
v. Language planning  
vi. Language teaching  
vii. Bilingualism  
viii. Dialectology  
ix. Language and culture  
x. Translation  
xi. Cross-culture  
SUBMISSION GUIDELINES  
Abstract : Of no more than 200 words and writen in Malay or English with  
translation  
Biodata : 50 words  
Full paper : 10 – 20 Pages (1.5 Spacing)  
Font & Size : Arial, size 11  
Word Processing Programme : MS Word  
SUBMISSION  
Please submit your abstract via online to:[linguis...@gmail.com]()  
IMPORTANT DEADLINES  
Submission of abstracts: 15 September 2011  
Notification of Acceptance: 01 October 2011  
Full Papers : 01 November 2011  
PARTICIPANT OF THE CONFERENCE  
Academicians, professionals, students and researchers, members of the public  
from ASEAN member countries and others.  
LANGUAGE FOR PRESENTATIONS  
Paper presentations must be in either Malay or English  
CONFERENCE VANUE  
School of Language Studies and Linguistics, Faculty of Social Sciences and  
Humanities, National University of Malaysia, Bangi, Selangor Darul Ehsan.  
REGISTRATION FEES  
i. Local : RM300.00  
RM150.00 (students)  
ii. International : USD200.00  
Registration fees include admission to all keynote and plenary addresses, all  
parallel presentations, tea/coffee breaks, lunches and conference materials.  
ENQUIRY  
For futher information, please direct your inquiries to:  
Secretariat  
Fifth ASEAN Linguistics Conference (PLA 2011),  
School of Language Studies and Linguistics,  
Faculty of Social Sciences and Humanities,  
Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia,  
43600 UKM, Bangi, Selangor Darul Ehsan,  
Malaysia.  
Tel.: 603 89216568 (/Dr Fazal Mohamed bin Mohamed Sultan/)  
603 21482732 (/Rusmadi bin Baharudin/)  
603 89216490 (/Khalthum binti Ibrahim/)  
e-mail:[linguis...@gmail.com]()  

  

Kalyanaraman

  

<http://tinyurl.com/3mrkhea> (Author: Rastram)

<http://bharatkalyan97.blogspot.com/>

<https://sites.google.com/site/kalyan97/indus-script-cipher>  
<https://sites.google.com/site/indianoceancommunity1/>  
<https://sites.google.com/site/bharatasahitya/>  

