+++
title = "000 Dr.BVK Sastry (Gmail)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (Gmail)	2012-06-12, 09:24:35 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/q0Ef5JK5KH0)]]



Namaste



1. This debate of ‘Samskrutham –Sanskrit’ – layers is an ongoing one for the last several decades. It has become a sensational thing to attack ‘ Panini –Samskrutham’ ! This is called the approach of ‘yena –kena prakarena prasiddha purusho bhava’ !



2. While majority of the critics want to prove themselves smarter than Panini-Patanjali Muni traya and Shishta sampradaya in identifying the ‘ short coming of Panini, layers of language not addressed by Panini, ignorance and half hearted ‘bahulam chandasi’ rules glaring in Ashtadhyayi, the praise for the other grammarians views like Shakatayana et al’ , I am yet to see any single writer who explains the reason for Panini handling two or more streams of distinct ‘ languages in a single grammar document ? An organic one intertwined ? - Why same grammar rule book for Bhashaa and Chandas ? Why mix up the ‘ Social’ and Spiritual planes of thought manifestation process as articulated expression?



This is primarily exploring the understanding of ‘ modeling
language inheritance for grammar rule formulation’.



 The questions are: How did Panini look at the ‘ language/s
inheritance from the wide range of documents : Vedas to Mahabharata
to the so called social lingo spoken by rathakara, kumbhakara and Magadha –srughna people in specific flavors? How Panini / and his later commentators / schools failed to see the’ language layers related clarity’ which the indologists are talking so much of credit?
How did Panini formulate one organic whole grammar for multi-genre of languages, which he got as his inheritance ? If Panini had made his work as ‘Common grammar for a plurality of historic languages’, how come NO LATER Grammarian of Paninian school followed this model of
‘diverse social language consolidation, as a periodic upgrade of Astadhyayi? How come twenty plus non-Samskrutham languages of Bharath ( and specifically Prakrits, Dramidam / Tamils ) kept their nose aligned to the authenticity of Samskrutham ? through out the history? Were all these people afraid of ‘ghost of Panini –Patanjali’ haunting them ? 



 It is easier to disbelieve and reject an omniscience knowledge of languages of different lands, people, usage, culture and contexts – in a range of even thousand plus years to Panini. Accepting it as a hypothesis, how come all the current theories of linguistics –indology still rest on the partial understanding of the source texts ( - mainly Vedas) in the light of Paninian resources ? Has any one made efforts to write a linguistic commentary on Vedas using a Greek and Latin grammar –Vocabulary ? A Hebrew / Aramic grammar ? a Prakrit grammar ?



3. The fact remains that Panini-Patanjali tradition provided the ‘Vedanga Vyakarana’ modeling for studying Samskrutham. Vedanga Vyakarana approach means ‘ Analytical exploration of Language & Language processes’. Here grammar is as much a language science tool as it is a language-spirituality tool. Language is a tool and process to give Total Truthful expression to Thought (Vivakshaa) ; a platform for True and Truthful Documentation by way of Articulation of the Vision’ ( Bhashaa should lead to Veda –Darshana = Visioning Knowledge ; Bhashaa Prakriyaa should lead to realization of the Veda-Darshana –Prakriyaa = Visioning Knowledge Articulation Processes.).



 This key statement is right upfront in Patanjali Mahabhashya, (which treats Samskrutham as Vak-yoga) : Atha gourityatra kah shabdah ? yena uccharitena …. Sampratyayo Bhavati.= By articulating / comprehending of which sound sequential units, the ‘total Awareness of everything that the word stands for is realized, a holistic comprehension of \< vyakti -jati-guna-dravya-kriya-samketa> , that is Shabda. The entirety of Vyakarana is ‘Shabda Anushaasanam’ ; It is also called Pada –Shastra. This definition of ‘ Shabda’ finds its technical expression in Paninian rule \< sup-ting antam Padam> : A ‘Pada in Samskrutham document is a ‘ Fully processed one which facilitates the above definition of ‘Shabda’.



 This is NOT the stand of modern linguists –indologist’s who ‘ find fault with Panini’. For modern indologists, the ‘word –language’ are social phenomenon, unregulated, where deterioration and degeneration ( = Prakaruatva, apabramsha, mlechaa) features are inherently built. There is nothing spiritual, scientific analysis behind it. Grammarians and Dictionary /Lexicon are Language Documenters; They are NOT the
regulators of language dynamics !



Thus, one can see clearly the unique paradigms of language modeling followed by Modern schools and Paninian Traditions. Critiquing Panini for what he is not is correct. If one needs to understand how Paninian language modeling has shaped the documentation of religion, culture, spirituality and philosophy of Bharath, then proper understanding of the
‘ Mysticism and Science associated with Samskrutham cannot be dropped or improperly substituted by alien models.



I hope some one will take time to address the questions above, before going gag a over Panini criticism. And that needs to be substantiated
with a fuller research in to the languages of Bharath between Panini and Valmiki, to explain the shaping of ‘Bharatiya Vidya Sampradayas’,
without taking any recourse to Paninian ‘ Bhashaa and Chandas’ technicalities !





Regards



BVK Sastry





**From:** [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() \[mailto:[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\]  
**Sent:** Monday, June 11, 2012 7:55 PM  
**To:** Digest Recipients  
**Subject:** {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Digest for [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]() - 2 Messages in 2 Topics



** Today's Topic Summary**

[PANini challenged by researcher Rajawade](http://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat/t/ec010548c5ca27a8)

**Dipak Bhattacharya \<[dbhattach...@yahoo.com]()\>** Jun 11 11:36AM +0800   
  
\<I have read Dr. Bhattacharyas comment, but he has missed the point as the point raised was itself amiss>Dr. Singh should stick to the context instead of going astray. I request him to go through the exact points raised by Dr. Joshi. His question was on the treatment of Panini by Rajwade and not on his originality. Dr. Singh misses that I replied to Dr. Joshi and not to him. His points have been raised anew after my letter. Naturally I stand by my observation. This is said without prejudice to the merit of Rajwade's thesis.  
  
Best  
  
DB  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
From: Bhagwan Singh \<[bhagw...@yahoo.co.in]()\>  
To: "[dbhattach...@yahoo.com]()" \<[dbhattach...@yahoo.com]()\>; "[gira...@juno.com]()" \<[gira...@juno.com]()\>; "[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()" \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
Sent: Sunday, 10 June 2012 9:03 PM  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} PANini challenged by researcher Rajawade  
Namaskarpurvakam,  
It is a privilege that I have read the book in question - Sanskrit Bhasheca Ulagada - despite my questionable knowledge of Marathi,  
so I may offer my opinion to be corrected by those who know more orbetter. Rajwade, analyzing the Paninian approach unravels  
the past stagesof the development of Sanskrit language and unawares of the PIE reconstructions reconstructs the past stages of  
Sanskrit language wherein he postulates three previous stages of commingling of people speaking different languages and specifies  
changes brought about due to this social and linguistic cohesion. He uses Panini, explains the incongruities and specifies the governing  
factors with his constructs. I wonder why none of the Marathi speakingSanskrit scholars did read and criticize and place Rajwade properly,  
who in myreckoning shows deeper insight and is not driven by AIT or OIT compulsions.  
He examines the data as objectively as is done in the field of natural sciences. The threeprevious stages to the Vedic are RaanaTii,  
crude language, Ati JunaaT Vaidik, very old or formative Vedic, JunaaT, old Vedic followed by Vaidik of the extent t text. I have every admiration for NR  
Joshi for focusing on this vital issue on which we had been sleeping for eight decades. I do not blame scholars for their ignorance who do not  
know Marathi. But Marathi Sanskrit scholars are suspect for having passed over this giant silently, for easy rewards.  
I have read Dr. Bhattacharyas comment, but he has missed the point as the point raised was itself amiss.. Rajwade has to be closely examined  
and criticised, especially becausehe posed the three divergent speech communities within Aryan frame while they appear to be people from different  
language families in popular terminology, joining a cultural stream trying to learn and speak/use the linklanguage, committing mistakes due to linguistic  
indulgences or habits as we all do while learning a language, even after we have working knowledge of it.  
BS  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
From: Dipak Bhattacharya \<[dbhattach...@yahoo.com]()\>  
To: "[gira...@juno.com]()" \<[gira...@juno.com]()\>; "[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()" \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
Sent: Sunday, 10 June 2012 12:09 AM  
Subject: Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} PANini challenged by researcher Rajawade  
  
It is certain that one cannot expect Paanini to be comprehensive. For a balanced assessment please see Thieme's Paanini and the Veda, Allahabad, 1935  
Best  
DB  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
From: Gmail Team \<[gira...@juno.com]()\>  
To: [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()  
Sent: Saturday, 9 June 2012 11:03 PM  
Subject: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} PANini challenged by researcher Rajawade  
  
June 9, 2012  
  
Respected Scholars, Namaskara!  
  
PANini challenged by the Marathi researcher Rajawade!  
  
It so happened , I came across a book written in Marathi. The title of the book is "Sanskrit BhAs'echA UlagadA" ( Analyzing Sanskrit Language). The author is well known Sanskrit scholar and ItihAsa Sanshodhaka
Rajawade (Marathi) from Maharashtra. In this book written in Marathi, the author describes three historical layers of Sanskrita--very ancient layer he calls PoorvaVaidika, second layerof Vaidika and the third layer the Sanskrit or BhAs'A of the time of PANini. He tried to prove that many rules of PaNinidid not explain properlythe left over remnants from previous layers.  
  
In this book PANini grammar is attacked on almost every page. I cannot summarize all his objections to PANini grammar. So my question is this--Does anybody has opinion on this book from the community of scholars from bvparishat or any other scholars from the world including India? Loving Sanskrit is emotion, either personal or religious or national. Researching Sanskrit can be done without such emotions of reverence to the authors of Sanskrit grammar. Perhaps that seems to be the attitude of Rajawade.  
  
Myresearch as explained on this list has to do with Phonemic Symbolism in Sanskrit Shabdas. So grammatical endings of Padas (which have definitely undergone changes over centuries) do not affect my research.  
  
Now as far as old layersof Sanskrit in Sanskrit grammar of time of PANini, it is hard for me to judge for the following reasons. Different scholars offer different timings of PANini. I am reading the three volumes of Yudhis'Thira MImAmsa (Sanskrit VyAkaraNakA ShastrakA ItihAsa--History of Sanskrit Grammatical Science). Here author takes time of PANini to be two three hundred years after Mahabharata war of 3000 BC. He lists and descibes many out of 80 grammarians before PANini.  
  
Please give your opinions on these books so that we can grow in our understanding of Sanskrit with your contribution. Thanks. N.R.Joshi.  
  



