+++
title = "002 VKG"

+++
[[VKG	2010-07-16, 06:37:26 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/36ZS1ojgqTM)]]



Dr. Brahma Dev/ Umesh ji!

While most of us hold the same/similar opinion about the education  
system, no action is forthcoming, as most of this generation holding  
higher posts in Education Hierarchy, are products of the system.  
Hence, it is doubtful, that the current establishment allows itself to  
be changed/ transformed.

If there is a listener, it would be fruitful to talk/ suggest.  
Otherwise, it would be nothing but similar to the Aranya Rodana by a  
herd of pitiable deers/ chakravakas.

Someone powerful at a couple of states, should start the process of  
organising/ inviting suggestions for its information. As education is  
a concurrent subject in our constitution, Centre alone cannot do  
anything. As we can see the level of resistance to any good proposal  
of the central government, such as common entrace test, common  
curriculum etc.

The cartels, athiest dominated, dharma neutral texts are to be  
replaced by the value based educationists.

Focus to shift from mere memorisation to analytical type of questions.

Unnecessary subjects such as geography, history can be replaced by  
vocational/ subjects of utility, as required by the society. (If some  
one is interested/ necessary, these details are readily available on  
the internet - wikipedia free of cost; which can be found in a  
fraction of a second, rather than wasting hours in byhearting  
something of no consequence to one's life.) Instead etiquette, traffic  
sense, home science, morality, sense of cultural pride, heritage etc  
should find their place in our current education.

Once these decisions are made, scholars would throng to give the right  
set of suggestions for inclusion in the curriculum.

Regards  
Vamshi Krishna Ghanapathi  
वंशीकृष्ण घनपाठी

On Jul 15, 9:08am, उमेश कुमार सिंह \<[umeshvai...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  
\> Dear sir your thoughts are excellent but this reform should start  
\> from ’संस्कृत जगत्’ .I think we all are known to this fact.  
\>  



