+++
title = "000 gira...@juno.com"

+++
[[gira...@juno.com	2009-11-15, 00:06:25 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/NNHTpwAmm2A)]]



Nov. 14, 2009

Respected Scholars, Namaskar!

I am glad to see of manyscholarly presentations on this list offered by scholars based upon my first posting on Sanskrit semantics. All participants benefit from such discussions.

Now I have a question for Dr.S. Korad. Quote, " Also note that the Western Linguistics was initially started on the premise that there is no connection between Shabda and Artha and the same had miserably failed." What is meant by no connection between Shabda and Artha? Does this mean Shabda has conventional meaning or something else? How did it miserably fail? As opposed to this what was the position of Sanskrit scholars in 500 BC? Did they think that there was connection between Shabda and Artha? If so what kind of connection? Saanketika (conventional) or else? Are you referring to Shabdashakti? If so could you please define Shabdashakti?

Next question: Quote" How can a Yogii understand the languages of all birds, animals? In the context of VyaakaraNa, it suggests Sphota" Does this mean Yogii understands language of animals because of Sphota? How do wecheck what Yogii is saying about birds language when we do not know it? Is this high spiritual Sphota or low level phonetic Sphota? The word "Sphota" itself is from the lowest level of Vaikharii? How could we apply it to high level some kind of spiritual mystic Sphota? Vaikharii has physical plane (the lowest level) basis because it uses articulated sounds generated by human vocal tract. Isit possible to discuss Sanskrit linguistic philosophy without referring to concepts like Naada-Brahma, Shabda-Brahma difficult to fathom. In my opinion there is no need to bring Yogii, Om, God, Maayaa (illusion), etcinto discussions on Sanskrit linguistic philosophy because all human languages are based upon physical properties of articulated sounds from human vocal tract. Thanks. N.R.Joshi.



  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[Weight Loss Program  
Best Weight Loss Program - Click Here!](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL2142/c?cp=HP0TZu6Q3eiDL2b9Ov0E3wAAJ1DzphoupZ8w6IeWaVuMIhzHAAYAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAADNAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAEUgAAAAA=)  

