+++
title = "000 S.Subrahmanya"

+++
[[S.Subrahmanya	2018-10-20, 07:30:44 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/-Ph4sBFcTuY)]]



  

 The theology of Occi-indology requires that "Buddhism" should be as distant as possible from anything Indic ( i.e. Vedic traditions)  

 Here is an excerpt from a recent book.

 The argument is that brahmins were bumbling bozos who were more into "religious and magical" and "theoretical religious views", but

 Budddha appeals to "empiricism based on personal experience and widely

 accepted by common sense"

 Of course, Ayurveda must be a "later Indian development".

  

 This is the state of "scholarship".

  

  

-------------------------------------------------------------

Buddhism and Medicine : An Anthology of Premodern Sources

Edited by C. Pierce Salguero



Contrary to the theoretical religious views of espoused by ascetics and Brahmins, the Buddha appeals to the empiricism based on personal experience and widely accepted by common sense. The Buddha prefers to explain illness in terms of observable natural causes, but he does leave open the possibility of explaining some painful feelings in terms of the theory of karma, a doctrine that is prevalent in many Indian religious and medical traditions. The Buddha’s explanation of illness in this text shows his evident familiarity with a medical tradition that was developing in the ascetic milieu, which contrasts with more religious or magical medical traditions such as those based in the Vedas. The historian of Indian medicine Kenneth Zysk has suggested that the later Indian medical tradition known as Āyurveda, despite its own quite different account of its origins, must also have its roots in the “empirco-rational” medicine practiced by wandering ascetics (and also by court physicians such as Jīvaka) who were contemporaries of the Buddha. (pg 4)

---------------------------------------

  

  

Regards.

S.Subrahmanya

