+++
title = "017 Roland Steiner"

+++
[[Roland Steiner	2019-08-01, 23:02:41 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/-yw42Z7SENs)]]



Further reading:  
  
-- C. L. Fábri: "Latest Attempts to Read the Indus Script". In: Indian  
Culture 1 (1934-35), pp. 51-56, especially p. 52:  
  
"More interesting, although similarly open to grave doubts, is the  
discovery by Mr. K. P. Jayaswal of what he claims to be the connecting  
link between the Indus Valley signs and the Brahmi characters. In a  
rock-shelter of the Vikramkhol Rock, Sambalpur District, Bihar and  
Orissa, a Sādhū, Svāmī Jñānānanda, found a series of signs, which Mr.  
Jayaswal edited in Pt. DCCLXXIV of Vol. LXII of the Indian Antiquary  
(March 1933), pp. 58–60, with nine illustrations. The editor suggests  
the date of ‘about 1500 B.C.’ and finds a number of signs (not more  
than nine) which he compares with the Indus Valley pictograms on one  
side, and with Brāhmī characters on the other. The very number of the  
comparisons raises already some doubt, and a careful inspection of the  
plates (which are very well produced) will strengthen one's impression  
that Mr. Jayaswal's conclusions are, in our opinion, somewhat hasty.  
The general appearance of an ‘inscription’ disappears when we try to  
find some connexion between the individual signs, and I must certainly  
and firmly contradict the author's assertion that ‘the writing is in  
regular lines'. Rarely are more than three signs in any apparent  
succession, although one must admit that the individual signs do  
resemble Brāhmī characters vaguely. It will be remembered that both  
the Mohenjo-daro inscriptions and the Brāhmī texts excel in the  
neatness of the line; indeed, few writings of ancient times can claim  
more beauty and perfection in execution than these two scripts. The  
Vikramkhol ‘inscription’ on the other hand is a topsy-turvy, haphazard  
collection of signs, mixed with a few incised drawings. I would go  
even so far as to doubt that it is an inscription. Yet the possibility  
cannot be denied that we have here some primitive, ‘rural’ writing,  
vaguely connected with the Brāhmī of the courts and temples. It is to  
be feared, however, that it would be in vain to expect a clue from  
that side to the Indus Valley characters."  
  
<https://ia801604.us.archive.org/6/items/in.ernet.dli.2015.277517/2015.277517.1158_W_O.pdf>  
  
  
\* \* \*  
  
-- Naresh Prasad Rastogi: Origin of Brāhmī script: The Beginning of  
Alphabet in India. Varanasi 1980 (Krishnadas Sanskrit Studies. 1), p.  
89:  
  
Conclusion: "Its date \[= of the Vikramkhol inscription\] is still  
debatable and its letters deserve a more searching scrutiny."  
  
  
\* \* \*  
  
-- R. Salomon: "Undeciphered Scripts of South Asia". In: Aspects of  
Indian Art and Culture. S. K. Saraswati Comm. Vol. Ed. by Jayanta  
Chakrabarty, D. C. Bhattacharya. Calcutta 1983, pp. 201-212, esp. p.  
208f.  
  
Conclusion: "The reasonable conclusion to be drawn is that the  
Vikramkhol 'inscription' falls into this category of nonliterate rock  
carvings." (p. 209)  
  
Best,  
Roland Steiner  
  
--  
Dr. Roland Steiner  
Fachgebiet Indologie und Tibetologie  
Philipps Universität Marburg  
Germany  
  

