+++
title = "008 Arun"

+++
[[Arun	2010-11-20, 08:28:54 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/8qccy33BzDY)]]



My father late Sri Chandrashekhar Upadhyay while translating Dramas of  
Bhasa was also intrigued by this-these are published by Nag  
Publishers, Delhi-7. This information is a great work. Reason is that  
there are several times of mahabhashya and of Kalidasa. Firstly-  
Kalidasa. There were 3 famous persons by name Kalidasa and one had  
title of Kalidasa. Rajashekhara in Kavya Mimansa has written about 3  
Kalidasas and M. Srinivasacharya in his 'History of sanskrit  
literature' (MLBD) has discussed it. Dramatist Kalidasa was in time of  
Agnimitra (1156 BC-Puranic chronology) as indicated by him in his  
drama-Malavikagnimitram at end (in Bharata-vakya). Poet Kalidasa was  
in court of Paramara king Vikramaditya (82 BC-19 AD) who had started  
Vikrama-samvat in 57 BC. He wrote a book Jyotirvidabharana in VS 24  
(33 BC) starting in Madhava month and completing in Karttika. He  
indicated that he had written Raghuvamsha and Kumara-sambhavam before  
that. Probably Meghaduta was written after that. Meghaduta has an  
important astronomical reference that rains were starting in month of  
Ashadha in Ramagiri ( south west Orissa which was a penal colony  
called Dandakaranya). Now it starts in Jyestha month which indicates  
its time in 1st century BC. There is of course a finer point. Months  
started from bright half at start of kali in 3102 BC-Vikramadidtya  
started with dark half as seasons had shifted back by 1 and half  
months in 3000 years. If month start is assumed as per previous norm,  
it would indicate time in Agnimitra period. If we take Vikrama samvat  
rule which had just started, then Meghaduta was in Vikrama period by  
poet Kalidasa. Third Kalidasa was in time of a Bhoja king of Malava  
who was contemporary of Mohammad as per Bhavishya-purana. He was a  
tantrika and ashu-kavi. He was contemporary of Jaina muni Manatunga  
also (author of Bhaktamara-stotra). Gupta king Samudragupta (320-261  
BC) in his Krishna-Charita has indicated Harishena as Raghukara (story  
of Raghu-basis of later epic Raghuvamsha. Harishena was given name  
Kalidasa. Samudragupta too has indicated that Patanjali was author of  
Charaka-samhita, Yoga-sutra and mahabhashya. Just after that Bhasa has  
been described as author of 20 dramas. Long extract of Krishna-charita  
are in 7th appendix of 'sanskrit vyakarana ka Itihasa' by Yudhishthira  
Mimansaka.  
Patanjali was of course one whom Vijnanabhikshu in his commentary on  
yoga-sutras has indicated as author of Mahabhashya, Charaka-samhita  
and yoga-sutras also. Parts 2, 3 of Charaka-samhita are indeed  
explanations of many topics of Yoga-sutras. However, his mahabhashya  
was lost and re-written at least 2 or probably 3 times. Rajatarangini  
has indicated that it was revived by a Gonanda king of kashmir  
sometime in 1600 BC. Katha-sarit-sagara tells that Gaudapada was  
disciple of Shukadeva and he learnt Mahabhashya from Patanjali as  
Adishesha at Chdambaram. His disciple was Govinda-pada, Guru of Adi-  
Shankara (509-477 BC) who had copied Mahabhashya before his sanyasa.  
That has been called Aja-bhakshita bhashya as many leaves were missing  
or torn like eaten by goat. So, he filled up blanks by his  
innovations. Thus reference to Bhasa, Pushyamitra and attack of Hunas  
on saket, their defeat by jatras (with matted hair, Jat?) etc have  
come.  
-Arun Kumar upadhyay, 09437034172  
  
On Nov 19, 1:24pm, Veeranarayana Pandurangi \<[veera...@gmail.com]()\>  
wrote:  



\> \<<http://sigads.rediff.com/RealMedia/ads/click_nx.ads/www.rediffmail.co..>.>  



