+++
title = "015 Dr. Yadu Moharir"

+++
[[Dr. Yadu Moharir	2016-10-03, 02:16:35 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/j-SGNeiwMho)]]



Namaste:  

  

  

BVK: Thanks for sharing ans elaborating your thoughts.

  

Can someone tell me why one should insist on trying to create terminology in Sanskrit, when this concept was concept was not known to our ancestor. What purpose does it really serve in trying to coin a term for CAKE when it was not known !? Then trying to gloat that Sanskrit is great for Science. I would rather use the term Entropy to be left alone as it is because we understand and science has used it successfully to progress and make headway.  

  

Yes, PaNini gave us a fantastic structure but did it not result is the loss of several vaidik pratishakhyaa's !? What knowledge was lost in that process is not even possible because we have no records for it.  

  

We keep hearing Sanskrit is Great for Computers but all I see is nothing more than tagging of known thing in grammar. If Computer's are Great for Sanskrit then how come no one has written and/or Executed a simple SUBROUTINE let alone a Program to run any thing on the computers !? There is no argument, that because computers and be a good tool for teaching some technical intricacies of Sanskrit Grammar that was not available for our ancestors.  

  

IMHO: the correct way would be that "Computers are Great for Sanskrit".  

  

Best Rgds

  

Dr Yadu  

  

>  style="font-family:bookman old style,new york,times,serif;font-size:16px"> >
>  style="font-family:HelveticaNeue,Helvetica Neue,Helvetica,Arial,Lucida Grande,sans-serif;font-size:16px"> >
> 
> > ------------------------------------------------------------------------ >
> **From:** sunil bhattacharjya \<[skbhatt...@gmail.com]()\>  
> **To:** BHARATIYA VIDVAT \<[bvpar...@googlegroups.com]()\>  
> **Sent:** Sunday, October 2, 2016 9:25 AM  
> **Subject:** Re: {भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्} Technical words in Sanskrit  
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 



>  style="font-family:bookman old style,new york,times,serif;font-size:16px"> >
>  style="font-family:HelveticaNeue,Helvetica Neue,Helvetica,Arial,Lucida Grande,sans-serif;font-size:16px"> >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com](). >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 



