+++
title = "023 rniyengar"

+++
[[rniyengar	2011-05-13, 13:45:50 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/UPPDjxJj_TQ)]]



Dear Prof.Aklujkar, Namaste.  
You wrote: “Here I will restrict myself to the relatively better  

supported conclusions I have arrived at in my unpublished material. In  
stating them I will assume that the chronology given at present for  
early Indian philosophical works is valid, although I am feeling  
increasingly doubtful about its validity. At least a good case seems  

possible for dating \*some\* of the works to a more ancient past”  
  
This statement is thought provoking and I wish more and more scholars  
look at the issue of chronology afresh. I am sharing my own discomfort  
in the present historical delineation of some of the traditional  
subjects like Yoga (sutras) which is under discussion in this thread.  
I like to make the following points for consideration.  
  
1. Instead of attributing the authorship of a ‘book/grantha’ to a  
particular person when he is unidentifiable, except emotionally, it is  
preferable to refer to the available work as a school/tradition/  
parampara/sampradaaya. This would help, at the least, discussions  
connected with relative chronology.  
2. In the present discussion on ‘Patanjali’ a curious issue is  
sidelined. That is evidence internal to the ‘tradition’ as contained  
in the Yoga Sutra(YS). This is astronomical in nature and hence  
perhaps ignored or interpreted as yogic/psychic/mystical.  
3. In the vibhuti Paada of YS we read: Candre taaraavyuuha jn\~aanam\|  
dhruve tadgati-jn\~aanam\| naabhicakre kaayavyuuha jn˜aanam \|  
(3.28,29,30). The first two of these refer to gaining astronomical  
knowledge through meditation. The third one is about anatomical  
knowledge. The context is clearly about gaining physical/secular  
knowledge through yogic practice. It has been the common practice for  
writers to interpret ‘dhruva’ as the pole star. But when it comes to  
‘tadgati’ they seem to harp back on to the previous sutra and say it  
is the ‘motion of the stars/heavenly bodies etc. I have not read all  
the ancient commentaries on the above. But I feel ‘tadgati’ should  
mean ‘tasya dhruvasya gatih’. I am not going to discuss whether such  
knowledge is valid physically. But the fact is YS admits that ‘dhruva  
was moving’ and this movement was considered an important ‘physical  
knowledge’.  
4. Quite interestingly Alberuni in 11 cent took the trouble to mention  
in his Persian translation of YS ( following some commentary?) that “…  
the pole star is in a complex of 14 stars shaped as a s’akvara i.e.  
the safan…..knows the motion of the stars. …. Hindus talk about the  
‘Siss’umaara which is called in Persian ‘susmar’ etc…\[All details with  
cross refs are available in S.Pines & T.Gelblum Bull. School of  
Oriental & African studies Univ. of London, 46, 1983, pp 258-304.\]  
5. The crux of the matter is “dhruva known to be at the end of the  
constellation s’is’umaara, once known to be fixed, was moving at some  
epoch”. This was due to precession of earth’s axis and would have  
been observed during 1500-1000 BC. MaitrayaNi Upanis.at also has this  
reference, as does MBh, BrahmaaNDa & VishNu PuraaNa. There may be  
other texts that I am not aware of which refer to the movement of  
Dhruva.  
6. Since YS also carries the footprint of Dhruva’s movement, the  
school of YS gets dated to around 1000 BC and not as late as the  
beginning of the Common Era as generally made out. The apparent  
contradiction of Dhruva being interpreted as ‘Fixed’ but said to be  
moving provides a chronological perspective to the ‘S’aastra  
paramparaa’.  
7. The above does not identify Patanjali in any manner. But we can  
perhaps claim that YS contains pre-PaaNinian elements in its Vibhuti  
paada.  
  
With regards  
  
RN Iyengar  



