+++
title = "016 Dr.BVK Sastry"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry	2021-03-22, 16:11:08 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/IiM0dIW0W-o)]]



  

Namaste Prof. KSK

  

( We dont have to extend this dialogue in public forum. I accept your invitation and will reach you and we will have a good dosa and coffee/tea together .)

  

1\. I commend your gusty flowery response flowing in elegant eloquent english to convey a 'zero' message, relevant to the point in the thread discussed.

  

2\. It is beyond my comprehension to understand the qualifier you have used in the statement : \<...**ordinary mortals that constitute the bulk of BVP**\> . Who then are the remaining for whose benefit these discussions are being carried out ? It is your prerogative to pass a remarks on the 'quality of BVP members' , pass judgement and make advises. Your words taken well. No hurt feeling.

  

3\. Good to know that you are your own proof-reader, like many of us.

  

4\. I will certainly take your advise to \< Appoint half a dozen proof-readers for your writings> when i can afford it, which is right now not the reality. 

  

5\. On \< You are imparting an inferiority complex to almost all the poor readers as your writings often loom as incomprehensible \> , \< talk-yoga> , I have made submissions of my thoughts. I have not advised or critiqued any one. When ever deemed necessary i have provided the evidence. If facts and truth in my post has hurt any readers feeling, i am sorry.

  

6\. Multidisciplinarity is not a sin ! You are also trained in good number of disciplines at respectable and premier institutions. Responding to a post is NOT the fight; It is sharing the view.

  

7\. How could the superbly trained 'Panini-grammarian' in you miss the simple connection of 'sve' in relation to 'sva' - as saptami vibhakti ? Does Vibhakti change the pratipadika and base meaning? The 'sva' part runs common in 'sve-sve' as well as 'sva-sva'.

  

8\. About two 'sva-sva-tva' , it seems to be special construction with a purpose to yield two levels of meaning: 'Ownership release' ( related to material) and 'Attachment of ownership release' ( related to
feeling attachment). I hope I dont have to elaborate on 'artha-vishesha' by 'dvirukti'. It is not replicaiton of 'homo-sounding syllables in consecution or a juxta position' !

  

9\. On \< Tell me, doesn't sva-satva-nivr̥tti amount to self-annihilation!? \> Does it ? Please contemplate. The directive is to give, give up the ownership, and then give up ' attachment to the past memory of ownership', which many professors carry proudly like to carry as : - 'I did this when I was the ....., ; when i was .....' . The first 'sva' is to 'relinquish of ownership'. The second 'sva' - is aligned ' relinquish of attachment to memories of ownership. This, in my understanding, is more aligned to Gita 18-2: Sarva-karma-phala-tyaga. It is for learned people to guide on why two 'sva's.

  

Regards

BVK Sastry



