+++
title = "000 SRINIVASA VARAKHEDI"

+++
[[SRINIVASA VARAKHEDI	2009-03-29, 17:39:00 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/1on3TKpdyH4)]]



Dear Scholars,  
  
Today I must share a very great experience of Freedom by switching  
over to LINUX -Ububtu OS getting myself out of clutches of Windows XP.  
The preamble of the story is as follows.  
  
When I started using computers 12 years back, I was given first access  
to linux systems. Though the initial experience was very bitter, it  
was indeed NOT!. When i found the uniqueness of LINUX and usefullness  
of the system for research with number of facilities, that are  
available free. However those days were not smooth for LINUX. Later,  
when i started working independently unfortunately (OR i should say  
forcefully) switched over to WIndows workstation where i found some  
easy ways to work.  
  
For the last three years i was experiencing a lot problems everyday  
with my system. That too in our lab at Sanskrit Academy, six months we  
are struggling with "VIRUS". It is like HIV!! Even after many efforts  
to find out remedy for VIRUS, we could not solve the problem. Still  
our lab is suffering from VIRUS.  
  
Our staff members were not ready to accept LINUX due to their habit.  
  
Last week in the dawn of new lunar year, i started to think to switch  
over to the FREEWORLD, where you do not have any kind of fear. I had  
some problems in getting connected myself to Internet thru my USB  
datacard. I was very sad. But, I decided to study and solve the  
problem. Though I am not a computer professional, I sat for two  
continuous days and consulted many webpages. Tried hard to run many  
programs and to stitch the gap. Ultimately I got the solution : now i  
am writing you thru the same connection.  
  
The LINUXis totally free. All kinds of soft-wares are available for  
free. FREE FROM VIRUS.  
  
You need NOT worry to buy a ANTI-virus. Get rid of everything. Enter  
into new world. Start a new life, where you can breath freely. NO  
MORE PIRACY.  
  
I am happy to inform you that probably for the first time in India, a  
Sanskrit publishing agency is publishing a book using XeLateX  
technology for Sanskrit. Sanskrit Academy is publishing Shaktivada of  
Gadadhara with the help of a technocraftman from Bangalore. We should  
change the old font / page maker system. No more typesetter is  
required. No dependency. Do research, publish on your own.  
  
I call the scholarly community to participate in this freedom  
movement. World is going with LINUX.  
  
"IN A WORLD OF NO WALLS OR FENCES, WE DO NOT NEED WINDOWS OR GATES!"  
  
With warm regards,  
shri.varakhedi  

