+++
title = "006 Dr.BVK Sastry (Gmail)"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry (Gmail)	2013-11-11, 09:35:11 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/m2JLPBw8GfA)]]



Namaste

1. This discussion thread is pointing to very specific and
serious problems, that need to be critically addressed in relation to 'presenting / relying on documents of veda in cyber space /device.' The question would be : ‘How does one decide the text-authenticity ? How to connect the continuity of traditional resources in a plurality of media and documents? 

2. Before going further, the two vertical line marking for ‘ elongated pronunciation’ as a market over kannada language characters was used by Veda-Dharma paripalana sabha, Bangalore which brought out many segments of vedic texts under the guidance and supervision of respected Panyam Sundara Sahstry. Some of the Ramakrishna matham publications, in kannada have also used this. I have also seen old devanagari print works ( oblong size, loose leaf paper publications)
with two vertical line markers in works like Brahma karma samucchaya.

3. A previous post on this thread by Prof. R.N. Iengar highlighted the seeds of this issue in this area. The post pointed to a need to take a note of Indian traditions used in scripting and marking conventions of ‘ Vocied-Vedic-Swaras’ in specific phases for Indian language-characters. (It is a serious research project, being pursued by me on a different level; Senior scholars like Dr. Ramanujam have done very good work on this part. I have been highlighting these issues over a decade and only now, it seems to be surfacing as something that needs to be looked at !)

4. The four specific areas to be addressed by researchers are : (a) Swara marking in the Indian languages as seen in the **manuscripts** on Indian language characters, mainly used for Guru –Shishya teaching and as personal reference . (b) Swara marking in the **paper-****print** **mechanized** **media**, as explained in the preface by Satvalekar, et al. This was mainly used for preservation –distribution-education-training . (c ) Swara marking in the **desktop / non-internet /pre-unicode standard** **cyber****-** **devices through software conventions** for facilitating commercial market publishing and print media distribution. This was mainly used as a convenience of technology for preservation –distribution-education-training . (d) Swara marking in the **internet /p****ost****-unicode standard****s** **cyber****-** **space** and hand held devices through software conventions for facilitating global cloud access and media distribution. This is mainly used as a convenience of technology for research and outreach of studies.

  

5. I look at the challenges here as below.



**Issue 1** **(Electronic Phylogeny issues)****:** The internet resources available today for 'documents of veda' use several conventions, without clarity. These up-loads and distributions are done as a matter of convenience than any conviction about the authenticity of the text or practicing tradition, with least care of contemplation on future impacts.

There is no initiative (proactive or supported) to audit the internet resources and publications floating around. Contrary to the popular belief and claim that 'Rig-Veda' is maintained ' intact without a single swara modification' over centuries throughout India (? - at least in one popular Shakhaa), I surveyed the totality of all major rigveda publications that has come up in the duration of 19th and 20th century; and has made a list of around 27 deviations ( Swara-Varna-Pada -sukta vibhaga, rishi devata chandas). I also used as a reference of comparison, one specific well known Ghanapatha -voice tradition from a well established Veda-Pathashaalaaof South India /Chennai) to make a preliminary survey of how deviant the print versions across Indian languages and voice tradition fared.

I am yet to get any satisfactory resolve for the questions I have raised.

**Issue 2** **(Computational** **linguistics** **issues)**: When the base text being used is not ‘clear’, and the base of ‘ cook-tools and rules to analyze the text’ is of incompatible nature , the ‘Vedartha’ = meaning and purpose of ‘Veda’ goes off the tangent ! The fear –statement kicks in ‘bibheti alpa-shrutaat vedah, maam ayam pratared iti’. The well meant intention of researching in Vedas ( Veda –samshodhana) becomes an effort of making a dry hole which cannot reach water in the underground. Valuable time and resources are being spent in this area !

**Issue** **3** **(****Authenticity of text in training** **–****Examinations and transmission of tradit****i****on** **issues)****: When one is talking of** **language** **which is sens****i****tive to the variation of a single swara ( as the tradition claims), the impact of** **unspecified** **extents of deviations in v****edic** **education****-examination****s a****nd** **certification** **systems can not be left to the domain of** **‘****arbitration** **–****statistics- and** **‘****My Guru****’****s authority****’****. There has to be a** **‘** **Vedaacharya-kulam****’** **–** **A Standards-Audit-Body** **that helps the resolution of issues in case of dispute.** The ‘ Interested and Affected teams are yet to come together on any consensus to save ‘ Root- Veda (Moola-Veda)’ per Vyasa standard before going cross roads on the ‘ branches (Shaakhaa of Vedas)’ as a specialty. If root is cut off, the branch is useful only for fuel !

6. In the current state, the nature of available document structure and formats do not facilitate to meet the end goal of
‘Veda-Rakshaa’ either as (Gopaaya maam, Shevadhiste aham asmi - ?) OR
‘Nishkaranena Shadango Vedo adhyetavyah’ OR ‘Vedaan saangam adheetyaiva brahma loke maheeyate’. The ‘ Wiki’ models of Sanskrit documents by volunteer team will just end up as a ‘toy-scale’ war for time-pass entertainment, without any final useful deliverable.

Regards

BVK Sastry



\> Prof.Korada Subrahmanyam



