+++
title = "016 Dr. P. Ramanujan"

+++
[[Dr. P. Ramanujan	2015-05-15, 11:37:25 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/uLNrQtOoqQs)]]



Actually, since as per shastras, Vedic marriage is a samskara and is based on agni-sakshika homas, saptapadi etc., its annulment is not possible 'just like that' or by law.



There is a procedure called 'ghata-shraddha' as a formal shastraic equivalent of the recent concept of divorce, which some vaidikas have done, when things in marriage went irreconcilably beyond saving. This will then stall Asouca later for those related by that marriage.



Even for a householder (AhitAgni) to take sanyasa, many ishtis are to be performed, to give up samskrta-agni.

agni-udvasana is condemned as like vIra-hatyA (Taittiriya Samhita 1.5.9).



So, dharmic or shastraic way of life is for varna-ashrama dharama adherents, for whom law may not be of help.



Ramanujan  





-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
\[ C-DAC is on Social-Media too. Kindly follow us at:  
Facebook: <https://www.facebook.com/CDACINDIA> & Twitter: @cdacindia \]  
  
This e-mail is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may  
contain confidential and privileged information. If you are not the  
intended recipient, please contact the sender by reply e-mail and destroy  
all copies and the original message. Any unauthorized review, use,  
disclosure, dissemination, forwarding, printing or copying of this email  
is strictly prohibited and appropriate legal action will be taken.  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

