+++
title = "022 pranav"

+++
[[pranav	2015-05-16, 14:13:10 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/uLNrQtOoqQs)]]



  
In so far as the 'Hindu Code Bill' is concerned, the jurisdiction of the Parliament in changing (please note: it is not about interpreting) what dharma-śāstra-s state is the first point under question. . The politics of Uniform Civil Code - thought to be the ground to make a 'nation' -- where Indians of every kind can declare themselves to be one because they are under the rule of a same law across the board in all walks and aspects of life - resulted in violating the dharma-śāstra-s in both letter and spirit. The first move towards Uniform Civil Code was Hindu Code Bill. The act of getting Christians and Muslims on board is what is happening currently by way of the recent Supreme Court judgements. See the works of Prof Tahir Mahmood and Prof Faizan Mustafa on the same (A recent link: <http://indianexpress.com/article/opinion/columns/for-all-the-shah-banos/>)  
  
Further, the definition of who a Hindu is -- is left unaddressed. The ativyāpti it leads to is a point unaddressed. As per Hindu Marriage Act -- Hindu applies also to Buddhist, Jaina or Sikh by religion. In recent times, Sikhs have appealed and insisted on having a separate Civil Code.  
  
To point to one specific question relating to Hindu Marriage Act as an example: how come 'sagotra vivaha' becomes legally permissible under the Act which dharma-śāstra-s reject? \[See the response to this from Kane below\]  
  
The nature of change in inheritance laws has wrecked sufficient havoc on the life of Joint Hindu Family. Would the current inheritance laws stand the scrutiny of a Mimāmsaka?  
The combination of *Dāyabhāga* and *Mitākṣarā* in ways that does not recognize the nature of the society envisaged by dharma-śāstra-s -- is a point that can be conveniently overlooked under current dispensation and mindset.  
  
JDM Derrett (<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/J_Duncan_M_Derrett>) points in one of his writings: "The law of the Joint Hindu Family has been very largely modified, with a view to eventual extinction, by the Hindu Succession Act, Act XXX of 1956. The *Mitākṣarā* will continue to be an authority in India until the legal joint family expires, and thereafter in those parts of the world where Hindu law is in force without modification by statute. "  
  
As Prof. Aklujkar points out -- it may as well be true that dharma-śāstra experts are consulted -- but the question is: Whether they had the authority basing on the Dharmasastra-s to overrule the Government of the day or the 'secular' Constitution in so far as matters fundamental to the followers of Vedic injunctions and Smriti-s(keeping in mind: श्रुतॆरिवार्थं स्मृतिरन्वगच्छत्). While this is one side of the story, there is a second side.  
  
When Pt. Lakshman Shastri Joshi (under whom several dharma-śāstric texts were edited and printed as 'Dharma Kośa' from Wai )-- who in his 'A Critique of Hinduism' (1941) concludes:  
"Social institutions, higher than religion are being brought into being today. And society is now endeavouring to create means and institutions which would perform far more skillfully and on a much higher level, the role religon once performed in human history. A social order, unknown to all religions, is now a necessity; an order that will provide to all opportunities for full development of themselves.  
  
These new ideals are simply a development of the old ones. Vyasa regarded human life or the social order as of primary significance and subordinated everything else to it, including the so called permanent moral values. Buddha gave again man the central position. Philosophers from the Vedic period to Shankara kept the search for Truth going. We have all this great heritage. Assimilating it well, let us discharge our responsibility of creating a social existence which never existed before. Those who continually look to the past, while acting in the present, can have no future. It is only the new ideals and the new means of attaining them belonging to the new times, that can brighten up prosperity. You cannot climb up to the glory of the future unless the past is made just a step on the way."  
  
It is this spirit that drove Hindu Code Bill. There is a very important role that Wai played even in the way History of Dharmashastra-s got written. Shri Kane pays his homage to  
Svāmi Kevalānanda Sarasvati, the founder of Prajna Pathsala of Wai. Pt. Laksman Shastri Joshi was a student of Svāmi Kevalānanda Sarasvati. Shri Kane writes in pg. 1705 of  
History of Dharmasastra-s Vol 5, Pt. II (Sec X,Ch. XXXVII) \[I skipped the footnotes -- the first one indicates that Lakshman Shastri Joshi was also member of the  
said Mandala, and the second one about the 'Hindu Karanavidhi' - a ritual to re-convert\],  
  
"In 1934 some persons under the guidance of Swāmi Kevalānanda Sarasvati of Wai (Satara district) started a society which later came to be named 'Dharmanirnayamandala'\*\* (society for arriving at definite conclusions on matters of Dharma). The Swāmi was a very learned man and a Sannyāsin, did not know English, but he held very modern views. There were fourteen original founder members of whom the present author is one. From 1934 to 1959 eleven sessions attended by hundreds of people were held at Thana, Poona (twice), Lonavla (thrice), Ahmednagar, Badalapur (Dist. Thana), Vardhā (in Berar), Akolā (in Berar), Wai and Bombay.At the different sessions resolutions were passed (in all 82) on several social and religious matters and a committee was appointed to prepare model *prayogas* (procedures) for Sandhyā, congregational (*Sāmudāyika*) prayer, *upanayana*, marriage, *antyesti* (funeral rites), śrāddha, remarriage (of widows), re-conversion of Hinduism & c. That Committee prepared under the guidance of Swāmi Kevalānanda Sarasvati such *prayogas* shorn of unnecessary details and with translations in Marathi, which can be had from Mr. Kokaje of Lonavla. Among the resolutions the following deserve special mention - usages have been changed from time to time by former learned men (sistas) and the learned men of the present day have the authority to introduce changes in usages as the present circumstances may require; that the untouchability of the people of certain castes be abolished (Art. 17 of the Constitution of India subsequently did this), that those sub-castes that have similar usages, samskāras and rule about food should merge and such merger is not against Dharmaśāstra; there is no objection to any Hindu sitting in the same row with other persons of different Varnas provided vegetarian are served vegetarian eatables; that Hindus including untouchables are entitled to study the Veda and have upanayana performed with Vedic mantras and priests conversant with the upanayana procedure should be ready to do so, if invited; if any one takes to another religion owing to force or fraud or of his free will and wants to revert to the Hindu fold he should be allowed to come in after the proper expiation and after undergoing a simple *vidhi*\*\*\*; marriages of spouses of the same gotra and pravara should be allowed provided there is no bar on the ground of sapinda relationship (vide Hindu Marriage Act, 25 of 1955, sec. 5 items 4 and 5); that divorce be allowed amongst the castes in which it is not allowed at present on the ground of conversion to another religion of one of the spouses &c. (almost the same grounds in sec. 13 of Hindu Marriage Act of 1955); a Hindu widow succeeding as heir to her husband takes an absolute estate except when any of the following relatives of the husband are alive, viz. , daughter, daughter's son, mother, father, brother, brother's son, paternal grand-parents, paternal first cousin (vide Hindu Succession Act, 30 of 1956, sec. 14 which goes further by omitting the near relatives specified above). Most of the decisions mentioned above were proclaimed from ten to twenty years before our Constitution came into operation.  
  
Among the standing complaints against brāhmanas one has been that they debarred millions of people called 'śudra-s' from Vedic studies. Therefore, the Mandala announced that all Hindus (including the so-called untouchables) should observe the worship of the sun,repetition of Gāyatri Mantra .... In order to cultivate a sense of unity among all Hindus (including the so-called untouchables), the Mandala prepared a congregational prayer (to be recited by all Hindus in a congregation once in a month).....  
The above lines would only briefly illustrate how we would have to proceed if we want an emotional integration of all our countrymen, particularly on the social and religious plane. But we must not forget what the foundation of our culture and civilization has been throughout the past ages....."  
  
I have, in my previous mail, pointed to Svāmi Hariharānanda Sarasvati (Svāmi Karpātri)'s work on 'Hindu Code Bill Sameeksha'. The point of one school of thought from Wai has dominated the entire country through its getting legal sanction. The work of Wai school requires to be studied critically in the light of the past sixty years of Hindu Code Bill experience -- what has happened to the nature and structure of the Indic society is a question to be seen from the standpoint of what dharma-śāstras indicate. I am aware of modern scholars on colonialism state with emphasis that: In 200 years of their rule British could not colonize the mind of Indian woman. But in a matter of 30 years after India's independence, under Indian rule, even Indian woman's mind is colonized.  



