+++
title = "000 Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma"

+++
[[Dr. S. Ramakrishna Sharma	2011-02-08, 18:10:49 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/3An4RxB000Y)]]



DEAR ALL,  
IT IS BETTER TO BEGIN WHEREVER ONE IS.  
WHENEVER ONE CAN.

About Sakshi  
Sakshi Trust is an NGO committed towards training citizens on how to  
use the RTI Act to improve governance. Sakshi aspires to create a  
thriving environment for participatory governance by training a  
threshold number of role model citizens in the application of the  
Right to Information Act, who with their success stories would  
encourage other citizens in emulating them, thereby effecting a more  
transparent and accountable government.  
2. Context of this Guide  
The Right to Information Act extends the right of citizens to obtain  
information about the environmental consequences of the activities and  
decisions of public bodies. This right applies to state, country and  
municipal bodies. People are entitled both to know whether public  
bodies follow up their own goals concerning environmentally friendly  
operation, and to get information about the environmental consequences  
of public administration and decisions of public bodies. The Act  
requires that public bodies are required to have knowledge and general  
information about the environment and make it easily available to the  
general public. The objective is that citizens shall be able to follow  
– and have an overview of – the development of environmental problems,  
both nationally and locally.  
The municipalities will have a special responsibility for ensuring  
that the inhabitants of the municipality have access to environmental  
information. Public bodies must further more strengthen administrative  
procedures in dealing with requests for access to information. The Act  
states that information, which is requested from public bodies, must  
be provided as soon as possible .The public sector is also obliged to  
make the information easily available and understandable.  
Sakshi Trust would like to thank Mr.B.Shatanu from Pune for sponsoring  
this guide book and for his concern for building a strong civic  
movement in India.

THE DOWNLOAD IS FREE.

---------- Forwarded message ----------  
From: B Shantanu's Blog \<[noreply+...@google.com]()\>  
Date: Tue, 08 Feb 2011 02:50:59 +0000  
Subject: Where do we begin?  
To: [d.ramak...@gmail.com]()

B Shantanu's Blog

///////////////////////////////////////////  
Where do we begin?

Posted: 07 Feb 2011 04:47 AM PST  
<http://feedproxy.google.com/~r/SatyamevaJayate/~3/aEFh1iNiNNA/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=email>

  
This is for all of us who sometimes despair and wonder where do we begin

Courtesy, SakshiTrust here is one great tool to help you start: RTI Guide  
for Improving the Urban Enviornmentand what better place to begin than your  
own neighbourhood?

Download the guide, share it..and please spread the wordTogether, we can  
win. Jai Hind, Jai Bharat!

Related Post: A Great Model of Good Governance

Disclosure: I do not know the people behind Sakshi Trust personally but I  
was impressed enough with their work to sponsor the guide mentioned above.

  
--  
You are subscribed to email updates from "B Shantanu's Blog."  
To stop receiving these emails, you may unsubscribe now:  
<http://feedburner.google.com/fb/a/mailunsubscribe?k=6lyoZMjE092i_fM7azfAQp0ReCM>

Email delivery powered by Google.  
Google Inc., 20 West Kinzie, Chicago IL USA 60610

  
--  
\*Aangirasa/Dr.S.Ramakrishna Sharma. M.A.,Ph.D.(Eng.Lit.),Ph.D.(Sanskrit.).\*  

