+++
title = "016 R. N. iyengar"

+++
[[R. N. iyengar	2014-08-05, 12:14:41 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/OwHWUb_3y6c)]]



A very fine and erudite explanation on the 33 koti devas. I take this to be the involution approach, where in Vedic samhita (usually RV) is explained in terms of the Vedantic concept of One God aka Brahman. But I think an evolutionary approach is also possible, in which physical objects, concepts, models & analysis precede in time eventually leading to generalizations, synthesis, mysticism, etc. The principle or dictumएकमेवाद्वितीयम्

is fantastic but it also depends on 1,2, 3,..the numbers which are originally physical. This counting of physical entities in one sense is the origin of logic/scientific thinking. RV has several examples of counting devas which I like to take as deities (the word 'god' is confusing!). The largest of them is 3339, mentioned twice in RV

*trīni śatā trī sahasrānyagnim trimsacca devā nava cāsarpayan\|*

*auksan ghrtairastrnan barhirasmā ādiddhotāram nyasādayanta\|\| *

*(RV 3.9.9; 10.52.6; also Rv Khila; TB and SYV.).*The upanishad number goes upto 3333. Perhaps the extra six is missing due to PaaThaantara. The number 3339 is too special a number to be ignored as being, "poetic, indicating a large number, fanciful or whimsical". The Vedic textual tradition has retained the background in bits and pieces to unravel the puzzle.

  

Vis'vedevaah (VD)

About the total number of deities recognized by RV there is considerable difference of opinion among later commentators. In one place these are mentioned as thirty three. As per the Nirukta even though there are only three natural deities localized to earth, atmosphere and sky, due to their multiple functions these are counted as thirty three.

  

Nirukta (7.5)*tisra eva devatā iti nairuktāh \|agnih prthvīsthānah\| vāyurvendro vāntariksasthānah\| sūryo dyusthānah\| tāsām mahābhāgyādekaikasyāpi bahūni nāmadheyāni bhavanti\| api vā karma prthaktvāt\|\|*  

*  
*

According to this logic still larger numbers can be recognized depending on the multiplicity of actions assigned to the thirty-three deities. In RV (1.34.11) the two *aśvins* are invoked to arrive along with the *thirty-three* deities*.*

RV (1.34.11)*ā nāsatyā tribhir ekādaśair iha devebhir yātam madhupeyam aśvinā \|*  

*  
*

This evidently implies that the *thirty-three* meant some sub-group excluding *aśvins* who are among the important deities of RV. The unanimous agreement of all authorities on *VD* is their total number which is stated to be 3339.

  

The group of deities known as *viśvedevāḥ* is of considerable importance in Vedic literature and also in Hindu ancestral religious observances. It has been the practice to translate this word as *All-gods*, which hardly conveys the role of these deities in the Vedas. We note that*viśvedevāḥ (VD)* were also countable like *maruts.*In RV apart from many isolated verses there are fifty-eight independent hymns devoted to *VD*. What was the role of *VD* in the Vedic world view? On this point, there is difference of opinion among the later texts and commentators. As per the Nirukta all the deities together form *VD*

Ni.(12.39)*viśvedevāh sarvedevāh*\|\|Durgācārya in his commentary on the Nirukta takes *VD* to be the rays of Sun following **Śa.Br.(3.9.2.12)*etasmai vai grhnāti ya esa tapati viśvebhyo hyenā devebhyo grhnātiraśmayohyasya viśvedevāh\| tasmādāha havisthā astu sūrya iti\|\|*

There still other explanations for VD, which I will not list here. But as per the Nirukta it is multiplicity of action which increases the count.In the opinion of the scholarly compilers of Mysore Palace edition of RV the nomenclature *VD* initially denoted the collection of all the Vedic deities but later got differentiated as a separate group for a special purpose, which is not explicit in the text and was probably forgotten by the tradition.Brhaddevata gives some clues to understand the action of VD.

  

The eleven hymns starting with (5.41) in the 5^(th) book of RV are devoted to *VD* as per the Bṛhaddevatā (B.D.5.36).*ko nu vām vaiśvadevāni ekādaśa parāṇyataḥ\|\|*According to one view all the Vedic deities structured into three sub-groups taken together are known as *viśvedevāḥ*

(BD 1.136*) brhaspatipracoditā viśvedevāganāstrayah\| jagmustritasya tamyajn**am bhāgāmśca jagrhuhsaha\|\|**.* 

Even though there is difficulty in finding out who were meant by these deities, a tripartite division is recognized in several places. In RV *vaiśvadeva* hymns are considered to be of three types, known as *sūryasanstava, viśvalinga* and *pṛthakstuti*

(BD 3.42)*vaiśvadevāni sūktāni trividhāni bhavanti tu\| sūryasanstavasamyuktam viśvalingam*p*rthakstutih\|\|*

The list of *VD* comprises of both individual deities and several recognized group deities. A list is given in BD where for several deities their numbers are not specified

BD (8.125-128) *saptarsayo vasavaścāpi devā atharvāno bhrgavah somasūryāh\|**               pathyā svastī rodasī coktamantre kuhūrgungūraditirdhenuraghnyā\|\|             
 asunītirilā cāptyā vidhātānurmatirha yā \|angirobhih sahaitāh syuruktamantrāśca devatāh \|\|*

* vaiśvānaro hi suparno vivasvān prajāpatirdyauh sudhanvā nagohyah\|             
apāmnapādaryamā vātajūtirilaspatiścāpi rathaspatiśca\|\|*

* rbhavah parjanyah parvatā gnāśca dakso bhago devapatnīrdiśaśca\|              ādityā rudrāh pitaro’tha sādhyā nipātino vaiśvadevesu sarve* \|\|    

For example the number associated with*parvatāḥ*and*gnāḥ*is not known. BD provides names of some forty seers who had understood or realized the nature of*viśvedevāḥ*

BD (3.55-60) *medhātithiragastyastu brhaduktho manurgayah\|*

*rjiśvā vasukarnaśca śāryāto gotamo luśah\|*

*svastyātreyah parucchepah kaksīvān gāthinaurvaśau \|*

*nābhākaścaiva nirdisto dyuvasyurmamamatā sutah\|\|*

*vihavyah kaśyaparsiravatsāraśca nāma yah\|*

*vāmadevo madhucchandāh pārtho daksasutāditih\|\|*

*juhūrg rtsamadaśarsirdevāh saptarsayaśca ye\|*

*yamo’gnistāpasah kutsah kusīdī citra eva ca\|\|*

*bandhuprabhrtayaścaiva catvāro bhrātarah prthak \|*

*visnuśca nejamesaśca nāmnā samvananaśca yah\|\|*

*etetu sarva evāsya viśvaih svaih karmajairgunaih \|*

*samastairathaca vyastaih prthak sūktesu tustuvuh \|\| *

**However, the hymns assigned to many of these seers are actually about *agni*. The traditional explanation for this apparent anomaly is; when *agni’s* cosmic actions are described, such a hymn should be taken to refer to *VD*

(BD 3.33).*āgneyam sūktamaibhiryadvaiśvadevam ihocyate \|*

*tadviśvalingam gāyatram vaiśvadevesu śasyate*\|\|

**What was this special cosmic action of *agni* which took the Vedic seers beyond meteors, comets, lightning and the sun that further necessitated a set of countable deities? The answer to this question is also available in the Bṛhaddevatā

*svarbhānudṛṣṭam sūryasya apahatya tato’trayaḥ\|*

*saptavimśatibhiḥ sūktaiḥ abodhītyagnimastuvan \|\| (B.D. 5.12)*

**

*The seers of Atri family, for removing the ill effect of Sun who was seen (covered)*

*by svarbhānu, woke up **agni** with twenty-seven hymns*.

  

As per this tradition all the twenty-seven hymns of the fifth book devoted to *agni* have some connection with solar eclipses. One can easily suspect that this relation between a solar eclipse and *agni,* other than indirectly indicating that Sun was recognized as a form of fire, should have been through a connection between *VD* and *agni.*

*The same VD-agni appears in the Saucika hymn of the 10th Mandala. I will not bother the readers with too many details.There is a very interesting legend about three elder brothers of saucika, who died previously etc. etc...(These hymns are connected with the Darshapurnamasa rites also.) Here again it is BD that comes to our help*  

BD explains the legend at great length and concludes



*tavāgne yajna ityetat pratyārdhi svistakrcca sah\|*

*yasya trīni sahasrāni nava trīni śatānica \|\|*

*trimśaccaivatu devānām sarvāneva varāndaduh\|*

*tato’gnih sumanāprīto viśverdevaih puraskrtah \|\| (BD 7.75,76)*



This establishes that bringing *saucīkāgni* was the prime role of the *VD* deities numbering 3339. If we read the saucika hymns from the 'adhidaiva' point of view, it can be surmisedthat a total lunar eclipse, when Moon turns red, is in the background. 3339 are the number of deities who drink moon (Soma-paana) in the dark fortnights. This makes up for 18-years, the eclipse cycle when the same type of eclipse occurs very near the same nakshatra.

  

More on RV, VD, Eclipse, DP-rites at

<http://www.scribd.com/doc/6054392/Eclipse-period-number-3339-in-the-Rigveda-by-RNI>  

<http://www.scribd.com/doc/13733529/Connections-between-Vedanga-Jyotisha-and-other-Vedic-Texts>  

<http://www.scribd.com/doc/49133364/Vedic-astronomy-behind-the-darsha-purnamasa-altar>  

Sorry for the long post. But the Vedic scientific naturalism is amazing and too fascinating!  

Regards

RN Iyengar

PS: As the significance of the numbers receded in collective memory, only the bare numbers remained leading to new interpretations. I remember a Kannada poem from my school days: 33 ಕೋಟಿ (33 Crore). This referred to the 33 Crore people of India at the time of independence, as the 33 Croe devatas...  RNI

  
  

On Tue, Aug 5, 2014 at 10:04 AM, rniyengar \<[narayana...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

>   
>   
> On Monday, August 4, 2014 6:42:48 PM UTC+5:30, Siddhartha Krishna > wrote:



