+++
title = "001 Dr. Sayant Mahato"

+++
[[Dr. Sayant Mahato	2019-04-29, 12:42:16 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/BYYtEGQaSV4)]]



Namaste,

It’s the most stupid thing I have seen lately. Please understand what they are telling? They developed a script called Bharati. Now, they developed an OCR that takes input of Bharati script and gives output. That can be converted to Unicode.  

In the first place, we have our 1000s of years evolved script, that they want us to change to Bharati script. And their OCR works for bharati script only. It’s like saying, if I give them an old devanagari book, they will turn it into Bharati script book by typing, then print book, scan it and OCR it. So, first step, they convert each of our text to Bharati script. Why? Because, they think one India one Script. Then, they want all books and texts in this Bharati script that was news for years now. Latest, they come up with some news in The Hindu that they developed some method to do OCR on the new script they.

Tell me, what’s the use? Wastage of public money by IITs. This also insults the diversity Indian languages have and does not consider that languages are written as well, not just computer typed.





dhanyo'smi

Dr. Sāyant Māhāto

Senior Research Assistant

Digitized Samskrit Corpus,

Aksharam, Girinagar, Bangalore, KA, In-560085.

  

  

On Sun, Apr 28, 2019 at 1:15 PM Nagaraj Paturi \<[nagara...@gmail.com]()\> wrote:  

> 
> > <https://www.thehindu.com/sci-tech/science/iit-madras-easy-ocr-system-for-nine-indian-languages/article26966671.ece>  
> > 
> > --  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]().  
> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>.  

