+++
title = "000 N.R.Joshi"

+++
[[N.R.Joshi	2015-07-22, 02:42:58 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/OwVsPUnvmQs)]]



Dated July 21, 2015



Prof S.Korada, SAdara PraNAma

please pardon me for raising this question to you.

I am reading the book by SwAmi HariharAnanda AraNya (rendered into English by P. N. Mukerji ) on Yoga philosophy of Patanjali-BhAs’ya by VyAsa).

From that book p 282 the sUtra 17 of Book III is "SabdArthapratyayAnam----------". I read the related pages. There is no direct mention of sphota in those pages. Somebody asked question to you on this sUtra in 2012. You replied on 12-8-12). I could not find that reply. So I am posing this request you. Please enlighten me on this subject.

According to K.Kunjunni Raja (Indian Theories of Meaning) p112, VyAsa author of BhAs’ya on YogasUtras does not use the term sphota at all. One has to infer from the description about sphota.

In your posting (dated Nov 15, 2009) addressed to my question, you mentioned the same Patanjali authored 3 books-MahAbhAs’yam, YogAnushAsanam and CarakasamhitA.

The conception of sphota (PrAkrita Dhvani) by Patanjali (author of MahAbhAs’ya-) was different from that of Bhartrhari (400-500 AD) and of latter grammarians. So it is impossible to have the sphota doctrine (as understood by Bharthrihari) by the same Patanjali in YogAnusAsanam unless two Patanjalis are different. I am confused. Please help so that I can grow in my knowledge with your knowledge.







Thanks. N.R. Joshi

  
  
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
[**Old School Yearbook Pics**  
View Class Yearbooks Online Free. Search by School & Year. Look Now!  
](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/55aeb59e6abad359e74a9st03vuc)[classmates.com](http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3142/55aeb59e6abad359e74a9st03vuc)

