+++
title = "000 Dr.BVK Sastry"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry	2010-05-26, 20:31:13 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/Sr4N-RM1dF4)]]



Namaste

I seek specific information on the question below. The reason for  
asking the question is also placed below.

Question: What is the Full description of 'Varna' (- as seen in the  
usage like VarNa-mAlA) ?How many unique descriptor -parameters are  
needed to uniquely define and identify the 'Veda-VarNa'?

Reason for asking the question: (1) The pANinIya decription of varNA  
in the frame of Shiva sUtra / Upadesha using the two parameters of  
sthAna-prayatna are not sufficient to uniquely describe the diversity  
of speech -atoms/speech units /aksharas. The additional description  
of Antara-bAhya prayatna so detailed in kaumudI tradition is not  
enough and matching with the models in prAtishAkhyas for veda-  
varNa's. (2) In the current scenario, speech units are described in  
three ways : (2-a) Classical Samskrutham /prAtishAkhya models; some of  
which end up inpurANa's; some jump in to music texts (2-b) The IPA  
(International Phonetic Association) notation mapping where the sound  
units are primarily targetted for script symbol representation (2-c)  
Modern Audio codecs and codes used in Digital speech spectrum  
analysis, Speech and Hearing (Medical Theraupy analysis) models  
follow a different set of parameters in describing what Samskrutham  
calls as 'varNa - akshara'. Therefore, a clarity on the traditional  
platform about what is 'Unique descriptor of human Speech-Atoms and  
molecules ' (= if I may coin and use the terms 'shabdANu' aNu-  
tara / aNutama shabda?) and referential text extracts is necessary.  
The debate here can not jump to the esoteric 'AtmA' level or track  
in to the model of debate on \< parA-pashyantI-madhyamA-vaikharI>  
terminology. The zone of analysis is clearly limited to 'indriya -  
karma /Shabdendriya -vAgindriya pravRutti'.

Thanks in advance for all the schoalrs who provide help in this.  
Please feel free to write to me off the line also, in case of any  
enhancement to the scope of the question/ response provided.

Regards

BVK Sastry  

