+++
title = "014 P.V. NARAYANAN"

+++
[[P.V. NARAYANAN	2016-08-17, 06:44:40 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/FRQ_Y07zTYg)]]



I'am a member of the Sree Sankaracharya University community. But, not a part of the protest going on there in connection with the Sankara statue issue which was brought to the notice of this group members by Mr. Anil Narayanan.

.

There is nothing to be debated or politicized in erecting a statue of the person in whose name an institution is established. It is a matter of merepropriety.

  

At the same time, we must think about an important fact that Adi Sankara's pictures/statues/idols which are now in vogue have nothing to do with the real image of the great teacher, because nobody does have anauthenticimage of him.All of the images and statues that we see now are the poor products of artistically/intellectually poorer people of19th and 20th centuries CE. So, since no one can be sure about the image of Adi Sankara the statue going to be placed there may be a popular image of an ordinary svami of modern age. This would only fetch shame to the Adi Sankara himself and it would make the real admirers of him desperate.

  

Why can't the scholars and followers of Adi Sankara take the thing in a fair and befitting way?  
Why do they run behind dead images and poor creations?  
The unparalleled philosophic works composed by the great preceptor are very much enough to enliven him until the end of the world.

  

I would like to bring another relevant fact to the attention of the members of this group that, Kalady, where the Sree Sankacharya University of Sanskrit is situated, is a centre of pilgrimage. The Kanchi Sankara Mutt is situated adjacent to the place proposed for placing the statue. Daily a large number of 'tourists' are coming to visit the Mutt and its 'stupa'. When they notice a statue (IDOL !) near by they will flock around it and also offer pooja there. (This has already happened with a statue erected in front of the main building of this university.) This primarily will disturb the smooth function of the University.

  

And, the more serious thing is that any university run by the state is a secular institution intented for serious academic activities such as generating and disseminating knowledge. (I find the faces of certain members in my mind, when the term 'secular' is pronounced. It is a pity to see the sad plight of a great idea). Allowing Worship and offering poojas on the campuses would ruin the very purpose of the academic institutions. So, if the University really wants to revere Adi Sankara it should withdraw its decision of establishing a useless, poor and unauthentic image of Adi Sankara before the University and must take meaningful steps to provide facilities for serious researches and deliberations on his works and ideas.

  

Thanks,

Dr. P.V. Narayanan.



