+++
title = "044 P.V. NARAYANAN"

+++
[[P.V. NARAYANAN	2016-08-18, 00:47:39 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/FRQ_Y07zTYg)]]



I thank the scholars who responded to my comments.

I really wonder to see the content of the responses of the scholars to my post. Sadly and painfully I realize that none of them has tried to understand my stance in the matter.



Thanks for the comments of Sri Nagraj Paturi and Sri Shrivatsa B. The only thing I wanted to say is that Adi Sankara is (was) not a god. So, speaking of the propriety of installing a replica image comparing it with gods' idols is irrelevant and seems unworthy of scholars. Even if an original image is found, academia must think thrice before installing it at aUniversity (let the image be of Marx or Mao or somebody else.)

  

Mr. Anil Narayanan's remarks are superficial. His views are emotional.His words appear as of a worker of a political party which is arguing for installing the image. There was no attempt on mypart to conceal the protests going on inside and outside the University against the move to install an idol of a *svami* (I do repeat- Not of Adi Sankara). As I know, there are certain people among them who are not leftists. Further, I had made it crystal clear through declaring my position that I'm NOT in favour of placing any statue in front of the University. But I'm not a part of the agitation going on against it. Regarding my political stand also; my words of this and previous poststhemselves have declared it, (and I used to unhesitatingly express it anywhere.)



My firm conviction in this matter is that this attempt is meaningless and it will neither help Sankara's philosophy nor the University (nor the society) in any way. Any scholar pursuing the peerless world of knowledge marched along by Adi Sankara needs no statue or idol. I do believe that Adi Sankara is to be perceived from the broad perspective of Hinduism and not from the rigid point of view of Hindutva. This position alsoiscertainly debatable.



Showing some quotations from somesource would notsufficeto establish baseless arguments. Paradoxically, the only quotable quote in this context is 'na hi yuktim anavagacchan kaścid vipaścit vacanamātrāt sampratyayabhāg bhavati'.(Let's continue the 'play' by designating everyone as Leftist and Dalitwhen she speaks logically, whichnow a dayhas become a common practice of certain religious fanatics.)



Complying with the comment of the administrator, I do abstain from making more comments about other aspects mentioned in the responses.



However, the people working in academic institutions must think about the society which supports their existence. Any state-university is run with the money of the common people who are following different religions and beliefs and divergent lifestyles. If every group demands to install their statues/idols on campuses the things will go beyond control. Universities willseizeto exist if physical spaces are allocated for satisfying everybody's beliefs. It should respect the beliefs of everyone by accommodating them into the syllabus and taking them as the topic of research, and critically analysing them for helping the society to go forward.



Again, joining with the administrators view, I still hope that this is a scholars’ group and not that of religious believers or of the followers of a particular sect.  
So, if the scholars continue the discussion I too wish it should be concentrated on the core point of this issue i.e., on the concept and purpose of a University, (which is a state of mind, not of idols or statues.)

  

Regards,

P.V. Narayanan.

  





> 
> > 
> > --  
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+unsubscribe@googlegroups.com](). >
> 
> > 



