+++
title = "084 P.V. NARAYANAN"

+++
[[P.V. NARAYANAN	2016-08-18, 20:16:32 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/FRQ_Y07zTYg)]]



Now the politics andintentionbehind posting this issue in BVP is exposed with the latest post of Mr. AnilNarayanan.

He intentionally or unintentionally has declared his grudge with the leftists.

He definitely has right to uphold such a view.

However, this appears to be the reason for bringing this issue before this group.

Instead of analyzing the merits of this issue he and some others want to sensationalise it.

It is the other side of the politics of the protesters.

It goes 'left-right'. Ultimately they move between black and white dichotomy.

I'm least interested in such a deliberation.

My position is different.

That's why I did not take part in the agitations going on in connection with this issue.

*(I didn’t even contact any of the organizers of the protests. As far as my knowledge goes AISF is not the only organization that protests in this issue. Majority of the students, teachers and non-teaching staff of the University are against the move to instal the statue. And, it is quite natural in a place like Keralam which has a highly politicized populace. It has its own merits and demerits.)*



I've precisely stated whatever is to be said in this matter.

Once again I realise the fact that discussion of this sort with the people who are not able to comprehend the crux of the issue and with those who are adamantly not willing to consider divergent positions will be futile.



I’m thankful to the scholars who tried to understand the problem and responded sensibly to my comments.

  

Regards,

P.V. Narayanan.

  



