+++
title = "099 P.V. NARAYANAN"

+++
[[P.V. NARAYANAN	2016-08-20, 23:52:41 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/FRQ_Y07zTYg)]]



I intervened in this discussion to invite the attention of scholars’ to the points beyond the responses based on emotions and beliefs (which were being posted then). Although, I have concluded my views I would like to post this too before withdrawing.

The important thing to be noted by the members who responded in this issue is that **at any cost the proposed statue (of Sankara ?!) will be installed** at the entrance of the Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit, Kalady. (Already one statue exists in the University at prime spot.) The University authority appears as adamantly firm on putting the new statue there. If the sources of the news in this regard can be trusted the LEFT DEMOCRATING GOVERNMENT, mainly led by the CPI (M) also apparently is not against this move of the University. (Everyone thinks that had the government wished, the move could have been stopped). The organizations like AISF are vainly making an effort to anchor their outfit on the campus at the expense of this issue. Some right wing politicians have already entered into the scene to make gain from the circumstance. They remind us about the jackal of *Pancatantra* story. That’s why I took a different position in this issue.

Hence, in addition to the points raised by me I request the scholar to consider the reasonable questions put forward by the people who logically protest against this move. They are:

According to the news spreading in the media and the university community the money spent for the new entrance and the statue is nearly 70 lakh rupees.

The statue alone costs more than 8 lakh rupees. (Both are to be verified.)

At the same time;

No special scholarships for Sanskrit researchers are being given here.

No special consideration for the research students doing Ph.D on the topics related with Sankara’s philosophy is instituted. (Although a school is there in the name of Sankara no research facility for students are available there.)

Research scholars are constantly complaining about the lack of sufficient facilities for research on the campus and demanding to make necessary arrangements for them.

Even though the University is having an Art Department and many talented students of that department are creating wonderful pieces of art, the University does not have any facility to protect and exhibit them. (An art gallery is there on the campus which is maintained by some other agency. It is not primarily meant for students.)



Is it the responsibility of academicians and academic institutions to undertake the propaganda of spreading bhakti ? (This is what actually happened with the existing statue, and the same is feared with the new one.)

When there are so many immediately addressable matters why is this haste on putting the statue? Does really need it?

There are so many institutions established in the name of great historic personalities, which do not have a statue of those persons. Instead, those institutions have arranged appropriate monuments in their memory such as art gallery, museum and magnificent library. (Certainly many institutions have statues also. But, scholars must think about the merit of them).



Finally, **is the statue a worthy symbol for a colossal figure like Adi Sankara?**

**I firmly believe, had Adi Sankara got any information about this, definitely he would have been the first protestor against this move. **

****

Abhivvadaye,

P.V. Narayanan.

  













> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > > " group.  
> > To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, > > send an email to [bvparishat+unsubscribe@googlegroups.com](). > > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > > > 
> > > >   
> > To post to this group, send email to > > [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> > For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>. > > > > 
> > > > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >   
>   
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > -- >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Nagaraj Paturi >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Hyderabad, Telangana, INDIA. >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Former Senior Professor of Cultural Studies >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > FLAME School of Communication and FLAME School ofLiberal Education, >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > (Pune, Maharashtra,INDIA) >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > --  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत् >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > " group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+unsubscribe@googlegroups.com](). >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >   
> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>. >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > --  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत् >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > " group.  
> To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+unsubscribe@googlegroups.com](). >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >   
> To post to this group, send email to [bvpar...@googlegroups.com]().  
> For more options, visit <https://groups.google.com/d/optout>. >
> 
> > 
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > --  
> You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google > Groups "भारतीयविद्वत्परिषत्" group.  
> > 
> > 

> 
> > 
> > To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send > an email to [bvparishat+unsubscribe@googlegroups.com](). >
> 
> > 



