+++
title = "101 P.V. NARAYANAN"

+++
[[P.V. NARAYANAN	2016-08-21, 18:33:34 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/FRQ_Y07zTYg)]]



Dear Prof. Nagaraj Paturi,  

I’m sorry to say that your knowledge about the SSUS Kalady is yet to be improved considerably for getting the real picture. (Scholars are supposed to verify the information available online!)

My reference *(Although a school is there in the name of Sankara, no research facility for students are available there.)* is to the International School for Sankara Studies and not to the Faculty of Indian Metaphysics under which the Department of Vedanta and Centre for Vedic Studies are functioning for several years. **In both these Departments no special consideration for Saankaravedaanta is given.** (Not even a single regular faculty has been recruited in the School of Vedic Studies till date. And the Vedanta Department is not ADVAITA VEDANTA Department. You may please verify the topics of research taken for Ph.D Degree in this Department.)

**The school for Sankara studies does not conduct any regular course. No regular or temporary staff is appointed there. And, NO research student is working in that school.**

Regarding your comment on bhakti; I have travelled across this great country many times visiting almost all states and also lived in other states mingling with the common masses for a long period. I have observed and experienced many times that the common people are not worried about the exactness of the image they are worshipping. They sometimes do not even consider whose image is it. Even some old ‘mile stones’ or unintentionally abandoned stones seen on highway side are worshipped in this country. I cannot/do not blame the people. It is the way in which our people used to live for last several centuries.

But, a university is expected to stand above the common beliefs and notions. by critically evaluating the social practices also. No new perception/knowledge would be possible if the existing knowledge/practices/institutions are interpreted and evaluated critically. The lack of this critical approach is the prime reason for lagging our academic institutions behind. So, once again I’m forced to tell that your assumption (solace !?) in this matter does not seem sensible.

Regards'

P.V. Narayanan.



