+++
title = "006 Dr.BVK Sastry"

+++
[[Dr.BVK Sastry	2012-03-08, 10:01:54 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/oB3e1yK3odE)]]



  
Namaste  
  
1. Observing the responses on this thread of discussions, I notice  
two issues, which clearly are dependent upon 'How one perceives and  
defines : 'Samskrutham' - A singular word which covers two modes / two  
technicalities of 'Thought Manifestation', as Bhashaa and Chandas.If  
Panini covered both these in a Singular work, integrally ( yet leaving  
out some thing for Pratishaakhya's), what was Panini 's audience for  
such a 'grammar work ? And how Patanjali taught this grammar - using  
Prakarana or Prakriya method OR some thing distinct from the  
above ?  
  
The short-visioned answers to these key issues decide which  
block of chaos and confusion you ultimately land with many unresolved  
questions ! The answer to these questions does lead to clarity on \<  
sincere pros and cons of both methods!!> and \< dangers of  
indiscriminate mixing of the methods- methodologies- terminologies of  
each model \>.  
  
2. Depending upon what one wants to achieve by learning 'Bhashaa'  
and 'Chandas one approaches appropriate textual resources - of  
grammar and content-applications.  
  
Similarly, depending upon the appropriateness for the context,  
the authors use 'Bhashaa' or 'Chandas'; of course with increasing  
contextual conditions. The advanced technicality of Guhya bhashaa /  
Paribhashaa is not elaborated now.  
  
Based on these considerations, the teaching method 'Shabda-Anu-  
shaasana 'is a methodology provided by the Master. The guidance on  
teaching method and resources.  
  
Prakarana or Prakriya or a distinct other model is NOT students  
choice. It is a custom recommendation by Master after assessing the  
students intention and ability.  
  
If as a student, one is making their own preferential 'subji and  
sandwich' of the methods like a fancy change of dress for the day, the  
outcome is simply confusion.  
  
3. If we look at the clarity of technical terms describing the  
'language' covered by Panini, the following understanding clearly  
emerges; and this has been there in the texts through out.  
  
( 3a) If thought manifestation is an outcome associated with a higher  
level of consciousness (technically marked as ateendriya) where the  
speaker has no personal intention / role of agency as a speaker beyond  
being a medium of expression and is articulating the 'cosmic sound-  
structure- sequence flows', then it is called 'Chando-darshana'. The  
outcome is Chandas /Veda /Shruti'. This expression is not 'limited by  
the human historic social conventions of language grammars. Therefore  
they are called 'eternal, universal, open for any one -any where to  
see , by attaining the pre-requisite level of perception sensitivity.  
Yoga, Tapas are ways for this. Any attempt to lock this to the  
'history' is a malafide way of using study of Samskrutham as  
'Sanskrit' the alien model to the tradition. Application of Shruti  
with further modifications is also guided by Vyakarana under Chandas  
part. This is called 'Ooha' for Viniyoga.  
  
(3a-1) If such thought expression, involuntary is from a lesser state  
of consciousness, it will be called a 'mad man statement (Unmatta  
geetha).  
  
(3a-2) If such thought expression, involuntary is from a hypnotized  
state / regressions in to past life et al/ under the influence of  
drugs / demi-level beings, it will be called a ' Bhootaavesha'  
statement. (Daiva prashna is one example; people speaking unknown  
languages in trans state is another instance).  
  
(3c) If thought manifestation is an outcome associated with a  
deliberated intelligence in full waking state of consciousness  
(technically marked as Pratyaksha / Jaagrat) where the speaker has  
personal intention to articulate Truely and Totally for the goal of  
'Satya' the ' processed Human Intelligent sound-structure- sequence  
as technical and True /Refined expression', it is called 'Bhashaa -  
Samskrutha Vaakya'. The outcome is ' Deva-bhashaa / Samskrutha Vakya  
which is Prakriyaa shuddha'. This expression is not 'limited by the  
human historic social degenerate language conventions and usage and  
historic language grammars. The decoding has to be done in relation to  
the grammar used for coding.  
  
Therefore the Samskrutham -Bhashaa expressions analysis makes  
the first demand : Identify in every sentence the 'pada -swaroopa'  
and then go for the 'Prakriyaa - Anvaya -Samanvaya' for getting the  
meaning. In this sense, the human expressions of this type are called  
'eternal, universal, open for any one -any where to access the true  
intention of the speaker'.  
  
In this sense, Samskrutham -Bhashaa Vyakarana is also a tool for  
any one to form a 'Thought Freezed Truely ( Nitya-Satya)for  
articulation / Thought processed for articulation making it an  
expression of immortalization ( Amaratva), by attaining the pre-  
requisite skill level of processing sensitivity, to conquer the 'Time  
- Decay / degeneration (Jaraa-Marana) of language by social usage  
(Praakrutatva). Yoga, Tapas are ways for this. Any attempt to lock  
this to the 'historic models of studying social decaying languages  
( Prakruta /mlecchita bhaashaas - as done rampantly in indology  
studies, for over two centuries now) 'is a malafide way of studying  
of Samskrutham- Bhashaa as 'Sanskrit- classical historical language'-  
the alien model to the tradition.It is a sad state that the  
Samskrutham traditionalists have joined the band wagon insisting that  
Samskrutham be studied as a 'classical historic 'language for purpose  
of grants from government. The caution of Patanjali \< Mithya prayukto  
na tam - Artham aaha> is forgotten !  
  
4. The technicalities of Prakarana and Anvaya methods are  
Instructors tools to guide the student to acquire the proficiency in  
respective streams of Samskrutham. In the current period, even in core  
institutions teaching Panini-Patanjali- Vykaranam, the preferential  
study is Bhashaa Vyakarana, also called as 'Sahitya - Alamkaara'  
approach. The 'Chandas approach / Vaidika Prakarana is a step-baby,  
which stays on the pavement and neglected, mal-nourished. This  
situation is like taking a purifying bath where head is dipped in  
water, leaving the body high and dry; and making a claim that one has  
taken a holy bath in Ganga. You may verify the pointer from this note  
and see the ground realities of teaching Veda in several  
institutions ! No Anvaya method, no prakarana method, No vedanga  
method ! Generally it has become ' Anu-Ratana ' method ( Karakone  
model of sing along / repeat freely) ; in the place of  
'anoocchaaraNa'method ( = Resonant repetition to meet the Standards of  
Shuddha - Upadesha). .  
  
5. On your note \< Every one studied Panini in Prakarana method.. \>  
This is Not factual. We also have stories that study of Panini grammar  
can be done in six months; it takes 12 years ; Three years study is  
enough et al. There have been Bhashaa-Vyakarana teaching methods  
keeping 'Chandas' part separated by need or choice (Buddhist /Jaina  
model).  
  
6. Reg. \< Regarding making roopa. Was every one able to make roopa  
before the introduction of prakriya method? \> Samskrutham ( as Bhashaa  
and Chandas) existed before Paniniś textual resource. Therefore, it is  
evident that the answer is 'yes, there were Samskrutham users, like  
Valmiki, Vyasa' before Panini who could make 'roopa'. If Ramayana and  
Mahabharta was popular scripture ( Veda for Masses), then the scoeity  
commoner did get the Samskrutham words with their 'roopa'. This will  
not be appreciated if you are from the world of 'dinosaur model of  
cosmology and languages of African tribals as the cradle of human  
civilization' so much propagated / liked beyond Bharath as an integral  
part of human civilizational history.  
  
7. Reg. Mallinatha's approach : Mallinatha is helping to appreciate  
the given literature. He is NOT writing a Veda - Bhashya ! Mallinatha  
is providing a stepping stone for learners who are trained in Bhashaa  
Vyakarana, and allied tools like Amara kosha, Chandas, alamkara  
shastra; but who are not capable of 'Experiencing the Mahakavi-Kavya'  
for the 'Rasa Mallinatha says the words of Maha-Kavi's which are  
'Durvyaakhyaa visha moorchitaa ' are being restored. Mallinathas  
vyakhyana is not a grammar learning tool.  
  
8. The use of Raghuvamsha with Mallinathas commentary et al is a  
historical model and a phase of introduction to 'Bhashaa Vyakarana',  
making learning it a pleasurable experience. When current generation  
Sanskrit enthusiasts make the ability to say 'Mama Naama /Tava Nama'as  
sufficient expertise to make a commentary on Veda- Ramayana -  
Mahabharata- Kalidasa Sahitya, it is a self-delusion / hype. One  
Semester study does not make one an expert in Samskrutham ( Bhashaa or  
Chandas).  
  
9. How on earth did you get in to this hallucination mode to write  

\< Earlier commentators like Mallinatha etc in their commentaries they  
easily make roopa without studying in the method of prakriya, then how  

this is possible? \> ???  
  
10. I hope the above note has answered how to approach and refine  
the pedagogy of Samskrutham Studies, addressing \< after reading cons  

of prakriya method in a book I felt, this prakriya method of study  

helps only for the one who doesn't wants to study the grammar  

completely or for the one who takes exams in Grammerin phatashala or  

univ having limited syllabus. is this true? \> There is a need to  
reclaim Samskrutham from the Sanskrit, especially at the universities  
teaching the discipline in a fragmented way!!  
  
Regards  
  
BVK Sastry  





