+++
title = "001 S.R.Krishnamurthy"

+++
[[S.R.Krishnamurthy	2012-03-10, 15:51:03 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/mp9sLoe5mOY)]]



Dear Doctors Joshi and Ajit,



I have given the info availble in the Vedas. That does not mean that a mathematical definition was given. that also does notipso facto negate that having defined the spin by the word RathaH by yaska; they did not further mathematically venture forward. The very fact, that they called the axis VaikunTha \[कुण्ठति वै इति वैकुण्ठः\] shows that they knew about the angular velocity and that the linear velocity at the hub will almost be nil \[kunThati is limps\]. Irrespective of enormous velocities at the circumference, the velocity at the hub or at the pole tends to zero; which fact was well known to our vedic rishis.

The very fact that Manu has given a time frame; with definite differentials for the Brahma, for the Gods and Pitrus and the humans; is an ample proof that Manu was a great Mathematician, Cosmographer and Astrophysicist. \[On the basis of his Time Frame, and the Bhagavad-gita, I have calculated distances to the Brahmaloka {the axis of the Universe}, the Devaloka {heaven}, and the Pitruloka\].

But it is also the truth that science was only a tool for them; and they were concerned about the innate Truth even behind the scientific visual world. That is made clear in Rik 1-164-9 that by the Vishwa**rupa**, the visual world, they inferred about the vishwa**rupya**. So the IQ of our vedic rishis were many times more than the contemporay standards, we have to concede.



As regards, your question Dr. Joshi, our vedic rishis knew that the atom is an assemblage of Panchamahabhootas. They had recognised at least the five subatomic particles; that went into the atom. The Chandodya details them; and Shankara had summarised them in his pacheekaranam. Long before Shankara, there was a scientist called KaNaada \[कणाद\], who spoke of diatomic and triatomic molecules, thousands of years before Avagadro presented his modification of Berzelius hypothesis. When even hundred years ago, Modern Science held on to Dalton's Atomic Theory; which held that atoms were indivisible.



They Vedas tell us how the entire universe is managed; about which the modern science is still clueless. It is akin to our Lechlanche cell; as I have posted a little earlier. The words**proton** and **electron** have not been used. But descriptions in Vedas match the modern concepts. I have shown that the modern names are sanskrit derivatives - प्रोथा अण्ड अलक्त्रा॥ But Vedas use the words Yama and yami respectively for them; indicating that Yama is +ve and yami is -ve. The randam movement of the electron is graphically described in Rik.1-164-31.



As between Anu and Paramaanu, Anu is the atom which is divisible unit of the matter. Paramaanu is the smallest trace of Brahma, as ***inferred*** by me. Because, most of the original texts were stolen abroad, siezed or usurped by invaders; which foreign countries are having and pursuing closely.

I fully agree with you, Dr. Joshi, that we should not go merely by resemblance of words; because most of the upanishadic words are being misinterpreted by modernists; imputing them acquired meanings, corrupted by passage of times. But scientists like you are well aware of the concepts, that an intelligent one cannot miss. So the congruence of descriptions cannot be missed by a true scientist.



And I am happy to notice when we come to that domain that there is total consensus between the philosophy and science; since both stand on the same empirical axioms; as recognised by Nobel Laureates likeAlbertEinstein or Richard Feynmann, or researchers like Stephen Hawking. For example, There is no loss or chang in the totality of mass, energy and life of the universe. There will be changes in form only. So your question about divisiblity of atom, is answered in many ways at many a place. So what we talk of today, our ancients knew millennia before.

Give the devil its due, the adage says. But we want cheat and plaguiarise without caring to acknowledge. That I consider reprehensible and unscholarly.



So those scholarswho have a sense of propriety, should carry on further, but giving credit where it is due to those who have done yeoman service to the quanta of knowledge at a time when the whole Universe was immersed in the ocean of ignorance. If we find that it is our duty to remember Kepler, Newton, Faraday, Dalton, Darwin, etc.etc., on the very same lines, it is not our duy to remember our Rishis?



Any way, I consider myself richly rewarded if at least one of you catches my point and takes the quantum of knowledge further either in the realm of what we call modern science or the philosophy; either of which only means the search for true and ultimate knowledge.



yours fraternally,

s.r.krishna murthy.

















  
  








> 
> > 
> > --  
> निराशीर्निर्ममो भूत्वा युध्यस्व विगतज्वरः।। (भ.गी.)  
> to subscribe go to the link below and put a request  
> <https://groups.google.com/group/bvparishat/subscribe>  
> To unsubscribe from this group, send email to  
> [bvparishat+...@googlegroups.com]()  
> > 
> > 

  

