+++
title = "000 navaratna rajaramnavaratna"

+++
[[navaratna rajaramnavaratna	2011-10-08, 11:23:59 [Source](https://groups.google.com/g/bvparishat/c/b8cStm6QoEQ)]]



  
  

---------- Forwarded message ----------  
From: **Ashok Chowgule** \<[ash...@chowgulegoa.com]()\>  
Date: Sat, Oct 8, 2011 at 12:40 AM  
Subject: \[BEF\] After ten long years of hard work, Diane de Selliers finally launches her version of the Ramayan.  
To:  
  
  



After ten long years of hard work, Diane de Selliers finally launches  
her version of the Ramayan.  
<http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5hW4t8DmOUTwdKa42Fcd5T1LuxpLQ?docId=CNG.386c114a61885895507d76900d1a1bfa.121>  
  
PARIS - "Tired but excited and happy": after ten long years of hard  
work, publisher Diane de Selliers finally launches an impressive piece  
of work, the Ramayana, a master piece of Indian literature, illustrated  
with 660 miniatures selected from museums and private collections across  
the world.  
  
It is collection of seven volumes in a red cover, carefully wrapped in a  
protective case, "like one uses for sacred objects", explains this big  
lady with long blond hair, in an interview to ATP. Her publishing house  
was created twenty years ago.  
  
The publisher claims: This is not a simple book but a piece of art,  
which bears witness to civilization.  
  
Ramayana is the fundamental Indian epic which narrates the story of the  
exemplary life of prince Rama, as well as his victories over Ravana the  
king of demons and his army of monkeys. Passed down over centuries by  
word of mouth, one finds several versions of the epic over the course of  
time.  
  
Diane de Selliers however has retained the most well-known version, that  
of sage Valmiki from the translation of Madeleine Biardeau. Commentaries  
have been drawn by Amina Taha-Hussein Okada, the chief conservator of  
the Museum of Asiatic Art, Guimet.  
  
Priced at 850 Euros the work weighs 15 kilos, with only 3000 numbered  
copies in limited edition.  
  
Since 1991, publishers Diane de Selliers has been creating books of the  
highest quality combining great writings with their illustrations by  
artists, at the rate of one title every year. "Fables" of La Fontaine,  
Dante's "Divine Comedy" and most recently "The Word of Genji" by  
Murasaki Shibiku.  
  
In order to assure the Indian museums, Dianne de Selliers , who has  
established her publishing house at Rue d' Anjou in the 8th  
arrondissement of Paris affirms that her collection of work is twenty  
years old and more than half the number of years have been devoted to  
the Ramayana.  
  
For us "it is a piece of work of capital importance, in terms of the  
number of pages, illustrations and research involved. We have put in  
extensive work to recover Indian miniatures which have been dispersed  
all over the world" declares the publisher.  
  
Diane de Selliers has made multiple trips to India, Great Britain and  
the United States in order to repair the miniatures on the Ramayana  
which date back to the 16th and 19th centuries.  
  
The final selection of the miniatures was procured from a list of 72  
museums and private collectors. "This is a treasure of world heritage"  
reveals the publisher. She further emphasizes the fact that the  
miniatures are extremely fragile and are in danger due to lack of  
conservation.  
  
In a year's time Diane de Selliers will be publishing an English version  
of the Ramayana.  
  
The cost of launching the French edition is "very very restrained". "It  
is virtually a gift by us in the sense that the cost of research has not  
been taken into consideration. It should have been priced at 1,500 Euros  
and still it would not have done us justice", she explains.  
  
"Today we are up to our ears in debt. We are awaiting the sale of our  
book to refill our coffers. For a few months we shall have to impose  
restrictions on our movements but we are very confident of the end  
result' she underlines.  
  

\_\_.\_,\_.\_\_\_

[Reply to sender]() \| [Reply to group]() \| [Reply via web post](http://groups.yahoo.com/group/bharatiyaexpertsforum/post;_ylc=X3oDMTJxOWVvcGphBF9TAzk3MzU5NzE0BGdycElkAzgwNzU0MDYEZ3Jwc3BJZAMxNzA1MDQzNjI4BG1zZ0lkAzQ0MDcyBHNlYwNmdHIEc2xrA3JwbHkEc3RpbWUDMTMxODA0ODkxMQ--?act=reply&messageNum=44072) \| [Start a New Topic](http://groups.yahoo.com/group/bharatiyaexpertsforum/post;_ylc=X3oDMTJlYzRhMG5wBF9TAzk3MzU5NzE0BGdycElkAzgwNzU0MDYEZ3Jwc3BJZAMxNzA1MDQzNjI4BHNlYwNmdHIEc2xrA250cGMEc3RpbWUDMTMxODA0ODkxMQ--)

[Messages in this topic](http://groups.yahoo.com/group/bharatiyaexpertsforum/message/44072;_ylc=X3oDMTM2bmwyY2NkBF9TAzk3MzU5NzE0BGdycElkAzgwNzU0MDYEZ3Jwc3BJZAMxNzA1MDQzNjI4BG1zZ0lkAzQ0MDcyBHNlYwNmdHIEc2xrA3Z0cGMEc3RpbWUDMTMxODA0ODkxMQR0cGNJZAM0NDA3Mg--) (1)

Recent Activity:

[Visit Your Group](http://groups.yahoo.com/group/bharatiyaexpertsforum;_ylc=X3oDMTJlZGhhNTlvBF9TAzk3MzU5NzE0BGdycElkAzgwNzU0MDYEZ3Jwc3BJZAMxNzA1MDQzNjI4BHNlYwN2dGwEc2xrA3ZnaHAEc3RpbWUDMTMxODA0ODkxMQ--)

Bharatiya Experts’ Forum (BEF)  
Moderator: G. Anil Kumar  
  
Generally, we have free-to-post policy within the group, with some exceptions. Defamation, recrimination, threatening, nudity and other depictions of similar nature are not acceptable in BEF.  
  
Since we have free-to-post policy within the group, authors alone are responsible for what they post and neither the moderator nor the owners of BEF can take any responsibility for what its members say in their postings.  
  

MARKETPLACE

[Stay on top of your group activity without leaving the page you're on - Get the Yahoo! Toolbar now.](http://global.ard.yahoo.com/SIG=15o0sne00/M=493064.14543979.14562481.13298430/D=groups/S=1705043628:MKP1/Y=YAHOO/EXP=1318056112/L=d77ca07a-f167-11e0-9afb-a3b0bb9ba211/B=QcXNB0oGYrE-/J=1318048912053583/K=MixdGw8k0ewQ7oIfHsxl4Q/A=6060255/R=0/SIG=1194m4keh/*http://us.toolbar.yahoo.com/?.cpdl=grpj)

Switch to: [Text-Only](), [Daily Digest]() • [Unsubscribe]() • [Terms of Use](http://docs.yahoo.com/info/terms/)

.

  

\_\_,\_.\_,\_\_\_

  

